SANTA CLARITA – The suicide of a man who jumped to his death last week from a freeway overpass near Santa Clarita is lingering with those who tried to stop him.

In the pecking order of first-responders for such cases, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department tops the list. But first on the scene last Monday were California Highway Patrol officers, who engaged the man for two hours before sheriff’s crisis negotiators arrived.

“This one really affected me,” said David Pokorny, a CHP investigator and the second officer to arrive at the scene. “We established a rapport. He trusted me.”

When a suspected crime occurs on the state’s freeways, the California Highway Patrol contacts the local law enforcement agency with jurisdiction.

In this case the CHP and sheriff’s deputies set up a joint command post. The CHP does not have a crisis team, so officers rely on general law enforcement training, said CHP Lt. Mark Odle, who oversaw CHP officers and operations in this case.

Pokorny arrived to find Melvin Edgardo Bonilla, 31, of Littlerock perched atop a 3-<MD+,%30,%55,%70>1/<MD-,%0,%55,%70>2-foot-high concrete wall on the bridge overlooking the Interstate 5 and 14 interchange.

Three intense hours later, Bonilla stood up and took the fatal plunge.

Pokorny has logged countless hours interrogating suspects in vehicular homicides, but this was only his second suicide case.

For two hours, he and CHP Lt. Ralph Elvira talked with Bonilla, prayed with him, tried to distract him and change his mind. From a distance they offered drinking water and hope, but were unable to yank him from the precarious spot without risking their own lives.

The freeways were shut for hours, snarling traffic for miles.

“The next scenario blows my mind,” Pokorny said, recalling the passing traffic. “A truck pulled into where he was sitting – between me and Mel – this guy was talking to him through the window of the truck. He gets out holding a book and runs over to Mel and says, `I’m giving him the Bible.”‘

Pokorny was dressed in street clothes and other officers told Bonilla he was a CHP chaplain, Father Dave.

“Mel says, `Will you pray with me?”‘ Pokorny said.

Despite the talks, a determined Bonilla gradually removed some items of clothing, including his watch.

“He handed it to me and said, `Father Dave, I want you to have this.’ That really affected me,” Pokorny said.

The 27-year CHP veteran is no stranger to tough scrapes, but the height was something else.

“Just looking down with both of my feet on the ground is scary enough, but standing there with nothing to balance …,” he said. “Traffic on the freeways had come to a stop, people were parked on the shoulder. He apologized for messing up the traffic.”

The former tow-truck driver appeared to be despondent over his firing, Pokorny said. He’d removed many wrecks and was respectful of the CHP officers and firefighter who were arranging airbags down below.

“He told me, `I don’t want to hurt the firemen, please tell them to leave,”‘ Pokorny said. “He was courteous, he called me `sir.”‘

When sheriff’s Lt. Andres Ramirez’s crisis negotiation team arrived, they tried hard to get Bonilla to discuss his issues.

“The negotiator was doing his best to get him to open up and communicate what his issues were,” he said, recalling Bonilla giving brief responses. “He was not communicative at all.”

Ramirez has been deployed to more than 600 tactical operations, involving barricaded individuals, hostage situations and cases involving people who suffer from depression, schizophrenia, delusions or suicidal thoughts. The team’s goal is to use words, not force, to reach a peaceful end to the situation.

Sometimes people who choose a very public exit hope relatives will learn of their plight and be brought to the scene by police. Sheriffs say it’s their job to resolve the crisis, so they contact family members for background information.

The crisis team has a high success rate when they’re able to forge a human connection, Ramirez said. They didn’t win this one.

“As human beings we feel disappointed we were not able to connect with them, save their life, that’s the mission of the team,” he said. “When a person does the thing, it’s mixed feelings – what could we have done, could we have done anything more to prevent him, said anything else? Why weren’t we able to convince him? We feel regret, angry … sadness.”

And despite his best efforts, Pokorny is second-guessing himself, wondering if he could have done more. As he was leaving the area he heard the news on the radio.

“My heart just dropped right there,” he said. “I was talking to this guy so long I began to get involved with him, with his pain.”

His commute won’t let him forget.

“I drive it every day to get home,” Pokorny said. “For the rest of my life I’m going to be affected by that spot.”

judy.orourke@dailynews.com

(661) 257-5255