William Robert Hardies, the 32-year-old Castle Rock man fatally shot in a standoff with police Tuesday, was brandishing a wooden club and coming at officers when a SWAT officer fired three handgun rounds at him, according to a Castle Rock Police Department statement released Thursday night.

After coming out of the garage where he had been barricaded, Hardies "advanced on the arrest team holding a wooden club approximately 2 1/2 feet long and shaped like a nightstick," the statement said. "He refused repeated commands to drop the weapon and instead brandished it like a club and continued to advance on the officers even as he was shot with two bean bag rounds."

The Cowlitz County Coroner's Office said Thursday that Hardies died of a gunshot wound to the chest.

Brett Dundas, the chief deputy coroner, declined to say whether Hardies was struck by other bullets.

Authorities, Dundas said, had notified Hardies' sister, a Texas resident, of his death.

Coroner Tim Davidson said toxicology results, which will show whether Hardies was under the influence of drugs or alcohol, won't be available from the Washington State Patrol for four to six weeks.

Castle Rock police approached the garage Hardies rented at 444 Kirby Ave. S.E., around 11:30 a.m. Tuesday. Hardies had arrest warrants for third-degree assault and contempt of court, police said. He also had a record of previous assaults on officers.

Hardies barricaded himself in the garage, refused to come out and said he had a 9 mm pistol, Castle Rock Police Chief Bob Heuer said. By 1 p.m., police had called in the Lower Columbia SWAT team. Hardies still refused to surrender.

The SWAT team fired chemicals into the garage, and Hardies fled the building around 4:45 p.m., coming out with the wooden club, police said.

Following the shooting, Hardies was taken to St. John Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

On Wednesday, when a Daily News reporter asked Sgt. Dave Trimble of the Clark-Skamania Regional Major Crimes Unit, which is investigating the shooting, whether Hardies had a gun, he said, "We don't know of any weapons that have been located."

Authorities said Darrell Stair, a 19-year veteran of the Kelso Police Department, fired the fatal shot. He has been put on paid administrative leave during the investigation, which is standard procedure. Also on leave is Longview officer Chris Trevino, who fired the bean bag rounds at Hardies.