Police have released new details on the shooting by a police officer in Whitehouse, Texas. Wednesday afternoon KSLA sister station KLTV learned the Whitehouse Police Officer's identity who shot and killed an East Texas woman in her home.

Officer Trent Richardson has been placed on administrative leave until the investigation is complete. It all began around 9:30 Tuesday night when officers were called to a home on Judy Street in Whitehouse for a domestic disturbance. A short time later, 43 year old Lynn Davis Smith, was dead.

Justice of the Peace Quincy Beavers confirmed Davis of Whitehouse died at 9:47p.m.

Wednesday, Smith's husband, David Smith spoke to KLTV describing the way Tuesday night's incident unfolded.

"She went and bought crack. She was lighting it on the stove when her parents came home and then she had that damn knife she's had a lot of problems with narcotics," said David.

David says his wife Lynn was bipolar and would have frequent violent outbursts. Wednesday night's incident was just one of them.

Upon arrival Whitehouse Police found Lynn in an outrage, waiving a butcher knife and threatening both her family members and Police.

"I was in there with my wife. Trying to take her damn knife from her. I got a scratch," said David who says he was cut with the knife across his stomach.

"A cop told her her to put the knife down two or three times. Somehow I was pushed on the couch," David told KLTV.

Whitehouse Police said, "Officer Richardson requested that the female drop the knife numerous times, which she refused to do. The female then charged at Officer Richardson with the knife, at which time Officer Richardson drew his duty weapon and fired a single shot."

David said, "She was out of control I will say that. But she hasn't been taking her medicine. But she's no threat to nobody."

David said Lynn has been in and out of mental institutions, even just this past weekend.

"They put her in Friday. Monday morning she called me to pick her up," said David, "She's really good at heart. She's really good girl. She's just nutty. They (Police) already knew about her condition. They've known it for a long time."

David and Lynn had been married just over a year.

"She was off her walker. We fought like cats and dogs but we loved each other," David told KLTV.

Lynn was also a mother, with three children from previous marriages

"She's a good person at heart. She loves her kids to death," said David, "I understand the cop had to protect himself but that's a little much."

Lynn's body has been sent to Dallas for an autopsy.

The Texas Rangers said in their preliminary investigation that Officer Richardson's actions appeared justified that he was providing protection to the female's husband as well as himself.

Danielle Capper, Reporting. dcapper@ktlv.com