FENTON -- Adam J. Powell, 18, was known for his sense of humor.

"He was a funny guy, a guy who loved to make jokes," said his classmate, Justin Slate, 17, a Holly High School junior. "The only time he wasn't joking was when he was mad."

Powell, a Holly senior and former varsity basketball player, and his friends James R. Waller and Michael J. Craig, also 18, may have been joking and carrying on when they attracted the attention of employees of the Taco Bell on Owen Road in Fenton early Thursday morning. An employee there called police, saying "some drunken young men were causing problems," said Chief Rick Aro.As a Fenton police officer responded to that call about 2 a.m., driving west on Owen Road, a sport utility vehicle matching the one Powell was driving went by the other way, eastbound, Aro said.

"He turned around and turned on his lights, but it appeared that the Blazer accelerated to a high rate of speed," the chief said. "All our officer saw was tail lights."

Police believe that moments later, Powell's vehicle, which had driven on Owen to the point where it turns into Shiawassee Avenue, tried to turn south onto S. Leroy Street, but smashed into the Fenton House restaurant. Powell was killed and Waller was critically injured.

Aro said Waller, who also was a senior at Holly High School and had a Holly mailing address, underwent surgery at Genesys Regional Medical Center; Craig, who was not a Holly High student and who had an address in Rose Township, suffered minor injuries, Aro said. Craig was the only one of the three young men in the vehicle who was wearing a seat belt.

The chief said police believe the teens may have been drinking, although he declined to say where his officers think the young men got the alcohol.

Holly High School Principal Dave Nuss said Powell was a senior who planned to graduate in mid-summer, while Waller had just graduated. Powell had been injured earlier in the school year in a motor vehicle accident that prevented him from playing basketball.

Nuss described Craig as a student at the district's alternative education program.

Justin Slate, who said he had been a classmate of Waller, described him as a teen who'd just graduated from high school and who idolized LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers.

"We always talked about basketball," Justin said. "We would watch highlights on the Internet."

Aro said that even though Powell had been killed in the crash, his officers would be consulting with the Genesee County Prosecutor's office about details of the investigation.

"You know, every year we try to talk to the graduating seniors about drinking and driving," the chief said. "But it seems we lose some kids in spite of it. It's a tragedy."

Nuss said the young men were "well-liked, 18, and ready to tackle life."

"Unfortunately, we're reminded again today how life is extremely fragile and precious."