The shooting of Rebecca Lynn Stebbins, 31, by Gridley police officers was deemed justified, according to Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey, who announced the findings of the Butte County Officer Involved Critical/Incident Protocol Team during a press conference, Wednesday.

Rebecca Stebbins had been battling depression for two years, Ramsey said. She had separated from her husband of 11 years in February and moved out of their Gridley home, which she shared with him and her two daughters, ages two and five years old.

Family and friends indicated Stebbins’ depression had worsened and she had expressed thoughts of suicide. Stebbins filed for divorce in March, and on June 10, she had a dispute with her father. On June 11, she filed a restraining order against her father and spent the night in a local hotel while writing a suicide note, Ramsey said.

On Tuesday, June 12, Stebbins had an argument with her boyfriend, who she recently moved in with. She then took his loaded .357 magnum handgun from its hiding place and left the residence. The boyfriend tried to stop her by placing himself in front of her 2005 silver Ford Expedition SUV.

“Stebbins responded by placing the revolver in her mouth and threatened suicide. Her boyfriend then backed away and as she left she told him not to call police or she would shoot herself,” Ramsey said.

The boyfriend called Chico Police at about 9:38 p.m. and explained what happened and expressed his fear she may be going to her father’s Chico residence to shoot him or to her former Gridley residence to shoot her estranged husband.

Chico Police dispatched officers to the father’s location, to her Chico apartment, and to her boyfriend’s home in an attempt to locate Stebbins.

During this time, Stebbins called her estranged husband and told him she was going to leave him a note and drop off the family dog, a black lab, who had been the subject of a bitter custody dispute. “It was an ominous sign she was going to drop the dog off and a note,” Ramsey said.

During this time, a dispatcher from Chico Police was able to phone Rebecca Stebbins on her cell phone.

Ramsey played the tape of the conversation between Stebbins and the dispatcher.

When the dispatcher said, “I’m asking you to help me understand, that’s all,” Stebbins replied, “There’s nothing to understand. Everyone has given up on me and I’ve given up on myself. I am dropping off the dog, giving her back to my ex-husband and that’s the end of the story.” Stebbins terminated the conversation, and the dispatcher called her back a second time.

At one point during their conversation, Stebbins declared, “And I will tell you this, if you find where the dog is and I get to my ex’s house and you guys are there, I will shoot myself in the car. So, you guys, planning ahead is not going to do a lot of good. Okay? Because the gun is in my hand.”

Ramsey said the dispatcher was desperately using various techniques, such as sympathy, harsh words, empathy, guilt, and any way to make a personal, human connection to prevent a tragedy.

Chico Police then informed the Gridley Police of the situation and concern Stebbins may be on her way to shoot her estranged husband at their Gridley home.

Chico police used GPS tracking of Stebbins’ cell phone and determined she was traveling down Highway 99 toward Gridley.

Gridley-Biggs Police dispatched officers to try to intercept Stebbins on Highway 99, and officers also went to the home of her estranged husband and children in Gridley.

Officer Brandon Wilson was the first to arrive at the Gridley residence at about 10 p.m. and found the estranged husband, who was sitting on the tailgate of his truck in the driveway waiting for Stebbins to arrive, Ramsey said. Officer Wilson warned the husband Stebbins was coming to his location and she had a gun. Officer Wilson said he should go inside the house and then the officer went down the street and set up a position to watch for Stebbins’ arrival.

At this time, Gridley-Biggs Police Officers Scott Smallwood and Scott Olsgard also arrived and urged him to get his children and vacate the house for their protection.

Officer Wilson and Sgt. Price set up at the end of the street and officers Olsgard and Smallwood staged at the end of a cul-de-sac near the residence.

Stebbins managed to slipped past the Highway 99 dragnet and came up Vermont Street, Ramsey said.

As the officers were waiting for the husband to get the children, Officer Wilson suddenly spotted Stebbins SUV approaching his position at about 10:06 p.m.

Officer Wilson got out of his vehicle and aimed his flashlight at the SUV and at himself in an attempt to stop her vehicle and identify himself as a police officer. Stebbins ignored Officer Wilson’s attempts to flag her down and instead turned and accelerated down the street.

Officer Wilson radioed to the officers, who were outside the husband’s residence, and then the officer ran down the sidewalk following Stebbins’ vehicle.

Officer Olsgard went to his vehicle, which was in the street in front of the husband’s house and turned on his lights and spotlight to illuminate the approaching SUV.

“Officer Olsgard saw Stebbins had one hand on the steering wheel and the other clearly holding up a handgun as if to display it to the officers,” Ramsey said.

Officer Smallwood moved from his position at the front door of the husband’s house to a position in front of the truck. “Stebbins stopped her vehicle in front of the driveway, and she got out with the gun in her hand. All officers at the scene yelled repeatedly at her ‘Drop the weapon! Drop the weapon! Drop the weapon!'” Ramsey said.

Instead of dropping the weapon, she got out of the vehicle and squared off facing Officer Smallwood about 38 feet away and began to raise the revolver toward the officer. “Drop the weapon! Drop the weapon!” the officers repeatedly yelled. She refused to drop the gun and as she raised it, the officers fired at her, Ramsey said.

Officer Smallwood fired his .45 caliber handgun four times at Stebbins, and Officer Wilson who had arrived at the location on foot, fired his .40 caliber handgun three times.

Stebbins was hit once fatally in the chest with a .45 caliber bullet. She fell to the ground, dropping her weapon.

Officer Wilson removed her firearm and the officers began medical treatment while radioing for emergency medical units.

“The officers immediately tried to resuscitate her, and an off-duty Sutter County officer also assisted, but to no avail,” Ramsey said.

Rebecca Stebbins was pronounced dead at the scene.

Stebbins’ vehicle, which was not placed in park, had continued to roll down the street and struck two Gridley Police patrol cars causing minor damage.

The black lab remained in her vehicle until her husband came out of the house and took the dog.

Officer Dean Price took charge of the scene and called in the Butte County Officer-Involved Critical/Incident Protocol Team to investigate. The evidence leads to the conclusion that “the shooting of Rebecca Lynn Stebbins, although tragic, was justified as Officers Smallwood and Wilson were in fear of their lives and of those they were sworn to protect,” Ramsey said.

Neighbors were interviewed and some said they heard the police yelling for her to drop her weapon. The contents of the vehicle were examined, and the note, which had been written the night before at the hotel, was found. The note was written to her husband and said in part, “I’m writing this tonight and going to bed. If you are reading this, it must mean I did not feel better.”

She wrote about “various hurts in her life” including the divorce and setback with her father, as the two had become involved in a property dispute, Ramsey said.

Stebbins felt estranged from her father and mother. She was also estranged from her ex-husband, who by agreement had custody of the children, with Stebbins having custody on weekends.

In the note, she mentions a special place at a lake where her body could be found, but she later scratched this part of the letter out.

“It is possible this was ‘suicide by cop.’ We can’t get into her mind, but we know she threatened to kill herself and potentially her husband or father. This was a tragedy for the woman, her family and friends, and most of all, the children,” Ramsey said.

The police officers had a concern that night the children might see their deceased mother lying on the street. “When the estranged husband and father finally brought the children out of the house, all the officers stood shoulder to shoulder in front of the body to block the view of the deceased. It turns out the children had slept through the shooting and were still asleep with blankets over their heads when they were brought out of the house,” Ramsey said.

In March 2006, Stebbins sought treatment for post pardum depression and in March 2007, she voluntary went into Enloe Behavioral Health after she had brought a loaded gun to her husband saying she wanted to kill herself, Ramsey explained.

“All evidence leads my office to conclude the shooting was justified. Officer Smallwood protected himself and Officer Wilson wanted to protect Officer Smallwood. Both officers did their duty to protect themselves and those they have sworn to protect ? the citizens of Gridley,” Ramsey said.

Gridley Police Chief Gary Keeler thanked the district attorney and said it was a difficult time for the family and extended family of the deceased and the police department. The two officers have been on administrative leave and had counseling and are expected to return to duty.

“They also have experienced officers who help them and evaluate how they are doing,” he said. This is the first fatal officer-involved shooting for the Gridley Police Department in over 11 years.

Lt. Brian Cook of the Gridley-Biggs Police Department commented, “The officers reacted in accordance with their training. The officers took the appropriate cover and made the appropriate commands.”

Ramsey remarked, “In Butte County a number of years ago, we decided in the best interests of law enforcement to have an independent team of excellent investigators for officer-involved shootings. This team is independent, fair, and unbiased, and the agency involved does not investigate their own shooting. And, these investigators worked all night to get the freshest and best evidence. They are among the very best officers in Butte County.”