Archives

Real life officer friendly stabbed in Joliet

By: John Gabriel/ TW

jtimesweekly@yahoo.com

Ask the students or staff at Premier Academy for their impression of Joliet Police Officer Mike Sheridan and you will be deluged with praises of his kindness, the very human side of his personality, and his generosity. “You cannot find a better person than Officer Sheridan! He is so kind and considerate; we all think the world of him. The kids here just adore him Mike is just the greatest,” Cheryl Rogers, Student Support Coordinator at Premier says. In a March 2007 interview with Ms. Rogers, she laughingly referred to Officer Sheridan as a “secretary” and noted that the officers who come to Premier Academy will often give a dollar to kids who are broke or even share their lunches with the kids who may not have one. Such are the men who work on their days off under a special arrangement with the school at a reduced rate that is less than overtime pay.

It would be easy to forget that Mike Sheridan is a police officer when conversing with him because of his amicable personality but as he demonstrated Thursday morning, June 14th, at about 10am he is also a fearless veteran with 29 years of experience.

Sheridan and another police officer were talking with the owner of JCM Uniforms on east Cass Street when a man carrying a baby ran out of a building at 202 E. Cass saying a man had attempted to stab him with a knife. The officers called for assistance and proceeded up the stairs to the second floor where they encountered a man holding his hands behind his back. Sheridan asked the man to show his hands and that’s when, according to Chief of Police Fred Hayes, “The subject pulled a knife, lunged at Sheridan and stabbed him twice.” Sheridan was stabbed once in the chest and once in the lower abdomen.

An officer standing immediately behind Sheridan pulled him back, away from the offender who he shot. The offender fell back but when he was ordered to drop his weapon he refused and lunged at the officer who fired a second shot that killed him.

Sheridan was rushed to Silver Cross Hospital where his condition was serious but stable; he was released from the hospital on Saturday but at home he was too weak to be interviewed or photographed, although he is presumed to be out of danger from his wounds.

In the course of their investigation police learned that there had been a second stabbing victim of the same offender, Elisha E. Blackmore 47 who resides in Ingalls Park. He drove himself to his girlfriend’s home and was taken to Silver Cross where his condition was listed as critical.

The man who was shot and killed after stabbing Sheridan was identified as Victor R. Vasquez 54; he had spent the previous two nights at Hotel Plaza on west Clinton Street and had at sometime previously been arrested for disorderly conduct. Police learned that the offender had purchased the knife he used in the attacks at JCM Uniforms according to Chief Hayes.

Chief Hayes declined to identify the officer who shot the stabber because the incident is under investigation due to the death of the man who stabbed Sheridan, but he is a police veteran of 13 years. Police explained that although the protective vests worn by policemen can stop bullets they provide no protection against knife attacks and leave the officers vulnerable in such situations.

Will County Teachers awarded with grants and scholarships

BP is proud to recognize educators from Will County for their award-winning program entries in BP’s successful A+ for Energy(r) initiative. Developed to identify teachers for innovation and excellence in teaching, the A+ for Energy program required participants to submit creative classroom, after-school, extra-curricular or summer activities involving energy education and conservation. BP will honor each of the winning teachers from Will County at a special ceremony at the Museum of Science and Industry on Thursday, June 21st at 6:00 p.m., where they will be awarded cash grants of $5,000 or $10,000 for their programs. In addition to Will County, Chicagoland teachers from other counties will be recognized as A+ for Energy grant winners. In all, BP will award more than $1 million in cash grants and scholarships to Chicagoland educators.

“We are extremely pleased to recognize several of Will County’s top teachers, whose creativity in the classroom both inspires and encourages students to be good energy consumers,” said Doris Salomón Chagin, BP Community Affairs Director – Midwest US. “The A+ for Energy program reinforces BP’s longstanding commitment to quality education. We are actively engaging with communities where our

employees live and work, helping to enhance education, encourage enterprise

development, and promote alternative energy solutions.”

In addition to the grant award, BP will provide the winning Will County

teachers with a scholarship to attend a three-day energy training conference, sponsored by BP and presented in partnership with the National Energy Education Development (NEED) Project. The all-inclusive scholarship will cover the cost of travel, meals, lodging and a kit of instructional materials (tools and resources for teaching energy

activities) valued at $500.

The A+ for Energy program added six new locations this year, including Chicagoland, bringing the total to eight. Partnering with BP on the A+ for Energy initiative is the National Energy Education Development Project (NEED), which helps supply course content and curriculum aligned with state standards for the core subject areas of science, math and social studies throughout all grade levels. In the Chicago area, BP has also aligned with the Museum of Science and Industry, the Chicago Urban League, Quad County Urban League, the Network of Hispanic Administrators in Education (NHAE) and ABC 7 Chicago/WLS-TV to help increase awareness for A+ for Energy.

Will County BP A+ for Energy Program winners, school and project:

Ghantel Perkins - $10,000; Balmoral Elementary (Crete); Saving Energy Is Power (SEIP) - TIME Is Not On Our Side

Sandra DeMaso - $5,000; Elwood Community Consolidated School District 203

(Elwood); Elwood Energy Field Day

John Horn - $10,000; Joliet Catholic Academy (Joliet); Bio-Diesel Comparison

Karen Stiehr - $10,000; Joliet Township High School - Central Campus (Joliet);

Solar Power Conversion System

Mary Pragovich - $10,000; St. Joseph School (Lockport); School Daze

Elaine Meldrum - $10,000; Robert C. Hill Elementary School (Romeoville); Energy Dectectives

Pace Bus Service, which uses the motto “A fresh approach to public transportation”, may find their riders finding a new approach to commuting should the transportation agency fail to obtain additional funding and unwanted changes become what Pace refers to as “hard realities”. On the table are possible service cuts and fare increases. Pace Bus, the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) and the Metra Rail Service, all a part of The Regional Transportation Authority (RTA), have announced that without more funding to cover shortfalls, cuts and fare increases are unavoidable.

Pace’s funding crisis has a $50 million dollar deficit ($23 million for fixed routes/vanpool incentive services and $27 million for ADA Paratransit services) with the Regional ADA’s funding expected to run out on September 1st. The plan of action to stay afloat includes a fare increase from $1.25 to $2.00 for fixed routes and from $3.00 to $4.00 on ADA Paratransit routes. As Frank Mitchell, Pace Board of Director Member representing Will County and former Lockport Mayor, explains the dollar amount may not sound like a serious increase on the surface, however, when converted to a percentage it’s disturbing to realize that the increase means in some cases a 60% fare hike. That increase could add up quickly and create a deep dent in the budget of many who depend on Pace. “An increase will be a major burden on the people who need it most,” Mitchell said.

Routes considered to be discontinued would impact riders of the 831

Joliet-Midway (connects the Joliet central business district and Metra Station with the Midway CTA Rapid Transit Station) and the 511 Joliet-Elwood-Deer Run (consists of two daily roundtrips, timed for first-shift factory work, operating between Joliet City Center, Elwood & CenterPoint Intermodal Center at Deer Run). Commuters would also experience a complete loss of week-end service on all routes.

Pace’s Heritage Division, which serves Joliet, has about 3,582 riders per day, 84,182 per month. Proposed routes for elimination would affect 166 customers per day. Will county feeder routes, which have 500 riders per day, could also be affected.

Several local Pace customers waiting on buses at the Will County Courthouse responded to the service and fare issues. “It’s my only form of transportation, so I don’t have any other choice,” Rosemary Blalock said. ADA Paratransit customer Ikenya Durham said, “If they charge more that’s ok but don’t take anything from us.” Reaction to eliminated weekend service was huge disappointment from Paula Quinn. “That would be terrible if they take anything away from us on weekends. I work weekends and that would make it really hard on me,” Quinn stated. All three of the women agreed Pace’s service and bus conditions were excellent but they hope the possible changes don’t happen.

Mitchell explains that the idea of cutting back at a time when the county is experiencing a rapid boom in economic growth and development is discouraging - citing the 511 route which was set up just 1 year ago to bring the Joliet labor market to Elwood. “It’s just unfortunate,” Mitchell says of the crisis and the strong public outcry opposing the changes.

Senate Bill 572, which proposes to increase regional sales tax to provide a steady stream of funding, is backed by Pace and RTA. The next hearing, open to the public, for Will County routes will be held Tuesday, July 24th, 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. at the Joliet Public Library, 150 N. Ottawa St., Joliet.

Zapatista-like a night in Cabo

By: Dwight Casimere

Zapatista Mexican Grill, 1307 S. Wabash, is the perfect place to stop for a bite to eat if you're heading into Chicago for one of the free summer festivals or the Grant Park Symphony concerts at Millennium Park. It’s just a short cab or bus ride from the Metra station and there's plenty of parking. Zapatista has flourished as a casual dining bastion of creative Mexican cuisine that combines a relaxed atmosphere, a copious list of premium tequilas and tequila drinks, imaginative margaritas and absolutely delicious food that will remind you of some of those great dinners you had a sunset in Cabo.

Zapatista is named for Emiliano Zapata. The legendary Mexican revolutionary, immortalized in film and song, who led the land reform movement in the early 1900s and was assassinated after being betrayed by one of President Venustiano Carranza’s

generals. A visit to Zapatista is just like dropping in at Carlos and Panchos in Puerto Vallarta on a perfect summer night. The outdoor patio is always jammed - but it’s just as much fun sitting indoors with the chance to people watch.

The menu is an excursion in authentic Mexican flavors. Spicy is the name of the day, but it’s more flavorful than overpowering and if all of the Spanish names and descriptions throw you, the wait staff has all the answers and will guide you through it. Just let them know what you like and trust their suggestions, and you’ll have a great

dining experience. Starting with the excellent homemade tortilla chips, made-to-order guacamole and salsas, both spicy and mild (the spicy salsa was made right before my eyes by my waiter. It was terrific!), I knew that I was off to a flavor adventure. Most of

the dishes are served in artistic- looking clay bowls. The most imaginative presentation is

reserved for Fajitas, which are done in a totally different way than any other restaurant. They are by far the most popular dish on the menu. But fresh fish is the order of the day. The ceviche of Mexican shrimp, lobster and tomato salsa is bursting with flavor.

For a real seafood extravaganza, splurge and get either the GUACHINANGO ALA VERACRUZANA, which is whole roasted red snapper with, roma tomato, green

olives, capers, onions, garlic, and red and yellow pepper, or the LANGOSTA EN GUAJILLO, grilled 8 oz. twin lobster tails with seasonal vegetables, roasted

fingerling potatoes, and guajillo cream salsa. You’ve just died and gone to Mexican Riviera heaven!

The housemade desserts are perfect. The molten chocolate tamale is a house specialty which consists of warm chocolate lava cake inside a corn husk with vanilla bean ice cream and raspberry salsa. Have it with a shot of Kahlua and don’t worry about the calories.

There’s valet parking, a nearby, reasonably priced parking lot and if, you’re lucky, free on-street parking. Zapatista is also easily accessible by local CTA busses or a short cab ride from the LaSalle or Union Street Metra stations. For more information and reservations, visit www.zapatistacantina.com.

Ronald Reagan lived in Dixon, Illinois as a youth and once called it "a place to come home to." The best time of the year to visit Dixon is right after the Petunia Festival because the streets are lined with beautiful pink petunias to welcome you for the day! The first stops on our tour are the house Reagan called home from 1920-1923 and Reagan Memorial Park, a newly opened Visitor's Center, and a Gift Shop. We'll hit the Galena Avenue Steak House for lunch. We'll venture back across the river for a preview tour of the soon-to-open Dixon History Center. Located in Reagan's fully-restored grammar school, South Central School, the center features displays and exhibits related to Reagan and his family. We'll make our way to quaint downtown Dixon for some shopping before we head back to Joliet.

The Museum will open at 7:30 a.m. for pastries, juice and shopping in the Gift Shop. We will return to the Museum at 6:00 p.m. The cost of this tour is $60 for Museum members and $67 for non-members, and includes the morning refreshments at the Museum, admissions to the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home and the Dixon History Center, lunch, and deluxe motor coach transportation. Advance registration and payment is due by June 25; phone 815-723-5201 ext. 235. Refunds cannot be issued after this date. Tour escort is Kim Shehorn-Martin, who grew up in Dixon and marched in Ronald Reagan's 2nd

Inaugural Parade!

Revisit our website often and see where we're

Traveling next-www.jolietmuseum.org.

Goodman Theatre's production, "In The Continuum" is the most important theatrical production to walk a stage in the Chicago area this year. A collaboration between writers and actors Danai Gurira and Nikkole Salter, who developed the play while graduate students at NYU, the play explores the HIV/AIDS pandemic from two diverse perspectives; one African and the other, American. The results are astounding. Each of the actors portrays their character with conviction and explores their seperate, but fatally intertwined worlds through the eyes of the unique personalities and events that surround them. Abigail is a successful married news anchorwoman in Zimbabwe, a symbol of the new breed of African woman in a society where women are still treated as property and subjected to abuse, both sexually and psychologically, by their men. The worst is the subjugation to HIV. Men take it upon themselves to engage in as many sexual liaisons as possible outside their marriages with no thought that they might endanger their partners with a deadly disease. Such is the fate of Abigail, who learns that her unfaithful and emotionally cruel husband has given her the AIDS virus while she is pregnant with their child. Nia is a head-strong southeast Los Angeles teen who has the hots for a local boy with athletic prowess and the potential to be scouted by the NBA. She gets pregnant by him without a word of commitment on his part and quickly learns that she too has been bitten by the HIV bug, thanks to Mr. Air Wonder. The play is told through the eyes of Nia and Abigail and the multiple characters that inhabit their worlds. Gurira and Salter are like chameleons, transforming themselves with a simple headwrap or a wig into a completely different personality. The effect is riveting. With virtually no scenery and a few dramatic lighting shifts, the two actors are able to take the audience on an emotional odyssey. This is theatre stripped to its bare essentials and in that spareness, it is most astounding. In the capable hands of Director Robert O'Hara, the hour and 40 minute intermission-less running time races by.. The audience reaches the end of the play like a marathon runner, emotionally spent. but richly rewarded for having completed the experience. In spite of sold out performances and pent-up demand, the play was forced to end its Chicago engagement so the two actor/creators could return to South Africa to begin an extended, sold-out international run. The last performances, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, June 22, 23 & 24 were sold out, with a few last-minute turn-ins available. For more information on Goodman Theatre performances, visit www.goodmantheatre.org.

Crispy Buffalo Wings

Prep Time: 10 minutes

Ready In: 1 hour

Servings: about 3 dozen wings

Crisco® No-Stick Cooking

Spray

1 stick melted butter

15-ounce bottle cayenne pepper sauce

1 teaspoon celery seed, optional

1 1/2 cups Hungry Jack® Potato Flakes

2 pounds chicken wings, rinsed and dried

Preheat oven to 425ºF. Line sheet pan with foil. Spray with nonstick spray.

Combine butter, cayenne sauce and celery seed, if desired, in shallow microwave-safe dish. Cook cayenne sauce on high (100 percent power), 45 to 60 seconds or until butter is melted.

Blend ingredients well with fork. Reserve 1/2 cup sauce. Place potato flakes in another shallow bowl.

Dip chicken into cayenne sauce; roll in potato flakes. Gently pat potato flakes onto chicken. Place wings on prepared sheet pan. If desired, wings can be covered and refrigerated several hours.

Just before baking, drizzle wings evenly with remaining cayenne sauce. Bake uncovered 40 to 45 minutes or until juices run clear when meat is pierced with a fork.

Is the NAACP a “Dinosaur?”

By: William Reed

You can sit back and watch as the world goes by or you can find

opportunities to make it better. The venerable National Association for the

Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) is taking it on the chin nowadays. The

NAACP's stellar legacy has fallen on hard times and questions abound if they

can endure. Lack of money and membership has resulted in the 98-year-old

organization reducing staff and shutting down regional offices.

The embattled group is out of favor with broad segments of Black Americans.

Michel Massie, chairman of the black conservative group Project 21, claims

the NAACP is "a dinosaur" that needs to "come to grips with the fact that

America has changed" since the1960s civil rights movement. A Black

Nationalist said on The Blacklist: "they have truly lost their way and have

failed. They are people who would go to great lengths to insure that the

status quo remains".

Be either they "Establishment" backers or bashers, neither segment is giving

the NAACP the love it needs. But, NAACP Chairman Julian Bond has appealed to

the public for help. In an interview with The Black Press News Service Bond

said the group has, "asked our regular supporters to redouble their contributions" and is "asking anyone who has benefited from the work of the NAACP to 'show some love' by putting a check in the mail and becoming a member". Bond also said he has "called upon our board members and SCF Trustees to give or get $15,000 each by the year's

end". Bond estimates that the effort "will put more than $1 million in our treasury".

Across America there is a dedicated group of faithful that will respond to

Bond's plea. They include annual dues-paying members and NAACP Special

Contributions Fund Board of Trustees "Rainmakers" such as retired Chrysler

executive Roy Levy Williams, former Disney executive Robert Billingslea and

Anheuser Busch executive Wayman Smith.

Since its foundering, the organization has been in the forefront of issues

affecting the black community: lynching, segregation, affirmative action,

etc. But, one of its greatest victories may have been its spawn in its declined

in membership. The landmark U.S. Supreme Court opinion case of Brown vs.

Board of Education in 1954 that outlawed segregation in public schools may

have been the worst thing to happen to blacks and their perception of the

NAACP. Black conservatives crow that the Brown decision was monumental in

its declaration that segregation was unconstitutional. The NAACP is a dinosaur because they say the decision "did not change patterns of segregation."

Identifying and changing patterns of segregation wouldn't be happening at

local NAACP branch offices if the national headquarters can't get back on its feet. Autonomous entities mostly run by unpaid volunteers, most of the NAACP's 2,000 branches have no office, no secretary and rely on volunteers. If the majority of African Americans sit on the sidelines while the historical group ceases to exist it would be a

shame. Core supporters of the NAACP will come together in Detroit for their

98th annual convention July 7th-12th. The theme is will be "Power Beyond Measure" and will include a "funeral" for the "N-word."

Is the NAACP still relevant in black life? Undoubtedly it is. And, as soon

as it moves away from partisan politics and back to the basis of addressing

black and civil rights issues the more relevant in black life it will be. In 1999, the NAACP introduced the "Knock Across America" campaign during which its members were asked to go door to door to get at least 10 neighbors to join. If the NAACP got 1 million new and paying members by year's end, they'd have a $30 million cash flow and be able to bring back workers and forcefully get back to the basis of their business.



New funding for children with developmental disabilities

Illinois will receive $8.6 million dollars in federal matching funds to provide a range of specialized services to almost 800 children with developmental disabilities. The funds, administered through the Illinois Department of Human Services (IDHS), Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) program will allow more families to keep their

children at home and still be able to provide them the specialized care they need. By establishing Medicaid waivers, Illinois is able to waive regular Medicaid rules and create this new funding source for Fiscal Year 2008.

The approval of the waivers was announced by Deputy Governor Louanner Peters at a joint videoconference of the Developmental Disabilities Waiver Committee,

the Autism Task Force, legislators and other developmental disability advocates.

“It is often a struggle for families who have children with special needs to make sure their

kids have the best care possible,” said Governor Rod Blagojevich.

The new program will give hundreds more families access to support and services so they can care for their kids at home. The new waiver programs, approved by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, will serve young people age three to 21 who meet the Intermediate

Care Facility for Developmental Disability (ICF-DD) level of care. Children with developmental disabilities include those with mental retardation and other related conditions such as Cerebral Palsy, Autism Spectrum Disorder, and Epilepsy.

The children’s support services waiver will prevent or delay the need for out-of-home care for 600 people and the residential services waiver will provide

services for approximately 175 to 200 families whose children need out-of-home residential services. “Through Medicaid waivers such as these, Illinois is able to provide assistance to even more children and adults in need of long term health care services,” said Illinois Healthcare and Family Services Director Barry Maram.

The waiver will offer a range of services including personal support such as training, respite and personal care; home and vehicle accessibility and modifications; adaptive equipment and assistive technology; training and counseling services for unpaid caregivers; behavior intervention and treatment; and service facilitation. The program is very flexible for families. Parents may use a monthly allocation of funds to purchase services from the list of covered services. They may purchase these services from traditional developmental disabilities providers or may purchase them from individuals in the local community who wish to provide personal support.

The new waivers are approved for a three-year period beginning July 1st and can be renewed at the end of that time.

GIOCO 1312 SOUTH WABASH

> CHICAGO, IL. 60605

> 312-939-3870

> Gioco: Tuscany trip takes south loop detour-by Dwight Casimere

> If you're planning to be in Chicago for a day of shopping, or catching

>"The Color Purple" at the Cadillac Palace, a perfect place to have a

>pre-theatre lunch or dinner is Gioco in the south loop . Its just a short

>cab ride from the Metra station and, if you take the Stevenson in, its very

>convenient to get off at the King Drive exit and make your way to 13th and

>Wabash where the restaurant is located. There's a valet and plenty of

>on-street parking. There's also a convenient and inexpensive lot a

>half-block away. Once you've tried the food, you'll wonder how a trip to

>Tuscany got detoured to the south loop.

> Chef Fred Ramos has been at the restaurant for only a year, but in that

>time, he has shaped a finely-tuned dining experience that brings together

>quality meat, poultry and seafood dishes in uncomplicated combinations of

>fresh herbs, olive oils and rustic sauces. Many of the dishes are prepared

>in his wood burning ovens, which are visible in the open, theatre-like

>kitchen located on the north wall of the restaurant. You can smell the

>wonderful blend of oregano and garlic in the air.

> I've dined at Gioco on several occasions, and each time was a

>revelation. Start with one of the pizzas prepared in the wood burning oven.

>You won't believe the taste and the incredible lightness of the perfect

>crust. I was offered a chef's choice of fresh basil, goat cheese, black

>olives and fresh garlic for toppings. Accompanied by Insalata Di Spinaci

>(Spinach Salad) composed of Spinach, Gorganzola cheese, Baby Beets, Red

>Peppers and Honey Mustard Balsalmic Dressing, it was heavenly. With a

>glass of Hogue Riesling, it was the perfect lunch!

>

> On another occasion, I had the Tasting Menu with accompanying wines,

>prepared personally by Chef Ramos. It was a tour de force of gastronomic

>pleasure. From the opening course of Carpaccio of Beef with Capers,

>Mustard Aioli, Arugula & Parmigiano cheeses, and moving through the next

>course of Truffle Scented Scallops with White Polenta and Wild Mushroom

>Sauce paired with a Pine Ridge Merlot and moving on to a perfectly prepared

>Wood-Grilled 16 oz. Bone-In Prime Ribeye Steak with Roasted Garlic Mashed

>Potatoes, the meal was perfection.There was no room for dessert, but I

>forced myself to eat the Torta Barozzi, a flourless chocolate cake with

>vanilla gelati and caramel & chocolate sauce. On another occasion, I had

>the Crema Gratinata, Chocolate Hazelnut Crème Brulee with Candied

>Hazelnuts, which is one of the most unique spins on a European classic that

>I have ever had. Desserts alone make Gioco a special afternoon or evening

>out. For more information, call the restaurant

> ant 312-939-3870.

>

>

>---------------------------------



The results are astounding. Each of the actors portrays their character with conviction and explores their seperate, but fatally intertwined worlds through the eyes of the unique personalities and events that surround them. Abigail is a successful married news anchorwoman in Zimbabwe, a symbol of the new breed of African woman in a society where women are still treated as property and subjected to abuse, both sexually and psychologically, by their men. The worst is the subjugation to HIV. Men take it upon themselves to engage in as many sexual liaisons as possible outside their marriages with no thought that they might endanger their partners with a deadly disease. Such is the fate of Abigail, who learns that her unfaithful and emotionally cruel husband has given her the AIDS virus while she is pregnant with their child. Nia is a head-strong southeast Los Angeles teen who has the hots for a local boy with athletic prowess and the potential to be scouted by the NBA. She gets pregnant by him without a word of commitment on his part and quickly learns that she too has been bitten by the HIV bug, thanks to Mr. Air Wonder. The play is told through the eyes of Nia and Abigail and the multiple characters that inhabit their worlds. Gurira and Salter are like chameleons, transforming themselves with a simple headwrap or a wig into a completely different personality. The effect is riveting. With virtually no scenery and a few dramatic lighting shifts, the two actors are able to take the audience on an emotional odyssey. This is theatre stripped to its bare essentials and in that spareness, it is most astounding. In the capable hands of Director Robert O'Hara, the hour and 40 minute intermission-less running time races by.. The audience reaches the end of the play like a marathon runner, emotionally spent. but richly rewarded for having completed the experience. In spite of sold out performances and pent-up demand, the play was forced to end its Chicago engagement so the two actor/creators could return to South Africa to begin an extended, sold-out international run. The last performances, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, June 22, 23 & 24 were sold out, with a few last-minute turn-ins available. For more information on Goodman Theatre performances, visit www.goodmantheatre.org.

Senior Black Democrat loses seat after endorsing republican

A majority of voters apparently were angered at Richmond, VA Sen. Benjamin J. Lambert for turning his back on Democrat Party loyalty and endorsing conservative, pro-Confederate Republican George Allen in last year’s U.S. Senate race. To voters and political observers alike, that move alone sealed Sen. Lambert’s fate in the majority-Black 9th District, encompassing parts of Richmond and Henrico and all of Charles City County. Delegate McEachin, who currently represents the 74th House District, won big majorities in all three jurisdictions, with Lambert loyalists unable to stem the tide of disapproval. Revelations surfaced that Mr. Allen had used racial slurs in the past and was caught on video at a rally calling his opponent’s campaign worker “macaca,” a derogatory term which means monkey. Sen. Lambert explained at one point that he endorsed Mr. Allen in exchange for Mr. Allen’s support for more federal dollars for Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The federal legislation ultimately failed.

Low Tech Skills create a $200 billion loss

As entrepreneurs commonly invest in and search for tools to boost profits, a study by the Urban Institute has revealed that many minority and female business owners are missing out on maximized profits because they are behind the technology curve. The Urban Institute reported that underutilizing Internet tools is costing these businesses $200 billion in earning potential each year. “Women-and minority-owned businesses are among the fastest growing companies in the U.S., and are doing incredible work in all sectors of our economy,” says Reed Overfelt, general manager of Microsoft's mid-Atlantic small and medium business division. “However, many of these companies are not fully utilizing technology and are unaware of the potential impact it could have on their business success.”

Most Americans support alternatives to sub-prime loans

To counter the ascending rate of abusive lending practices against African-Americans and Hispanics, nearly 80 percent of Americans support legislation to provide a safe alternative to high cost sub prime mortgages. The Wells Fargo survey found overwhelming support from African-Americans and other racial minorities, first-time homebuyers and families in high-cost areas for a strategy to help borrowers find an exit strategy from their faulty sub-prime mortgage loans that could ultimately result in foreclosure.

Hilton controversy smothers case of missing black woman

MSNBC received criticism for it’s opting to cut interviews and segments about the case of missing Stepha Henry, the 22-year-old African-American college grad who went missing May 29th from Miami-Dade in order to run continuous coverage of the Paris Hilton case.

Vocal warhorses herald end of one season and beginning of another-by Dwight Casimere

The second week in June was the ultimate indulgence for those who crave large-scale choral symphonies. Two warhorses were presented at opposite ends of Michigan avenue in the Loop during the same week; Verdi’s massive Requiem with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Chorus and Mendelssohn’s Elijah with the Grant Park Symphony Orchestra and Chorus at Millennium Park.

Thursday night’s regular subscription concert performance of Verdi’s Requiem was the next to last of the regular season at

Symphony Center before the orchestra moves on to Ravinia Festival. With the final week’s concert consisting entirely of Beethoven’s ultimate masterpiece, his Ninth Symphony, “Ode To Joy,” you might say that the CSO is going out with a musical ‘bang.’

The hall was packed with every available seat filled, especially with trumpets strategically placed in the lower balcony for added surround-sound effect. One could feel the excitement of the event crackling in the air. It actually felt more like an opening night, with the added drama of a last-minute substitution, Morris Robinson, Bass, due to a traveling mishap. This was serendipity at work, because Robinson turned in a brilliant performance, with his stentorian voice rising well above the strains of the orchestras masterful playing. Soprano Sondra Radvanovsky, a Lyric Opera favorite, gave impassioned readings of the weighty material in clear, shimmering vocals that rose through the air like silver meteors. Tenor Giuseppe Sabbatini made a strong impression with his dramatic approach and sterling voice. With the chorus carrying the material forward in a manner that lifted the material to the heavens, this was a sublime performance that deserved to have been caught on film for future generations. Verdi’s Requiem is not performed as often as some of the other choral masterpieces, perhaps because of the difficulty of getting appropriate singers. Such was not the case at this performance. Every soloist was noteworthy. Bravo!

Mendelssohn’s ‘Elijah’ ranks second only to Handel’s “Messiah” as the most beloved of all large choral symphonies. It was premiered in England and is probably performed there as often as the more familiar Handel piece. Not so here in the States, but Carlos Kalmar and the Grant Park Symphony Orchestra and Chorus’s performance in the Jay Pritzker Pavillion may change that.

This was a first-rate performance in every way. Kalmar almost levitated off the stage as he literally threw himself into music. His urgings drew every ounce of passion and fervor from the musicians and chorus. The soloists, including the beautiful soprano Erin Wall, mezzo-soprano Anita Krause, the brilliant John Tessler, tenor and Baritone Ten Braun made this a memorable evening and a one-of-a-kind performance. If you missed it, you really missed out on something special. Grant Park Symphony offers a virtual smorgasbord of musical programs this summer. For more information, visit www.grantparkmusicfestival.com . For upcoming CSO programs, visit www.cso.org.

Blind Boys, Staples glorify black music-by Dwight Casimere

If you knew absolutely nothing about black music, you would have learned all there is to know in the recent Symphony Center Presents concert featuring The Blind Boys of Alabama and Mavis Staples. In the two and a half hours that the two groups occupied the Armour Stage, they explored Gospel, Soul and Rhythm & Blues from its earliest roots in rural Alabama (Blind Boys) and Mississippi (Staples) and demonstrated its connections to the world of contemporary pop, rock and hip hop. The two entities each have about 60 years of performing experience under their belts and their proficiency on stage proved it.

The Blind Boys of Alabama have the distinction of winning four consecutive Grammy’s. As they were escorted onto the stage by their band members, it was obvious why the vocal trio has developed such a loyal following. They stuck to the basics, breathing new life into old traditional tunes like “Down By The Riverside” and the Gospel classic “Amazing Grace.” The group really shone during the section of their program devoted to their Grammy hits; “Spirit”, “I Shall Not Walk Alone,” Curtis Mayfield‘s “People Get Ready”, and “Devil In The Hole.” A rollicking rendition of “Look Where You Brought Me From” brought audience members to their feet . There was hand clapping, shouting and dancing that made one think they were down the road about two and a half miles in Bronzeville at Pilgrim Baptist Church. It was both cathartic and wonderful!

Mavis Staples then took the stage and wasted no time getting down to business. She started off with “Down In Mississippi” and it got funkier from there. After a lengthy introduction of her family members in the audience, (Chicago is home for the Staple‘s family, although they spend most of the year touring). Some of the introductions brought laughs. “Cousin Flooney. Yes, that’s her real name”. After references to her famous father and mentor “Pops” Staples , it was off on a musical express train of hits ranging from the protest days of the ‘60s to Gospel, to contemporary R&B. So much of Staple’s music is informed by the Civil Rights Movement. Even her cross-over hits ring with passages that were ripped straight from the protest lines. Mavis explained: “Pops wrote “Why Am I Treated So Bad” after we saw the Little Rock (Arkansas) Nine barred from boarding school busses trying to integrate all-white Central High.” Others followed in the same Gospel/protest veign; "Keep Your eye On The Prize", the song that inspired the Civil Rights Movement, and Pop Staple's "Somethin's Happenin' Here", a direct reference to the birth of the protest movement among young people in the '60s. The 1969 hit, "This Litle Light of Mine" brought the marriage of traditional gospel and spirituals to the protest movement full circle. "Will The Circle Be Broken.” was the encore that sent the audience shouting with Praise into the night. Bela Fleck and the Flecktones would round out the week with cross-over blend of bluegrass, jazz and rock. For more information on upcoming Symphony Center Presents concerts, visit www.cso.org.

Failure of U.S. senate to pass immigration compromise is blessing in disguise

Earlier this month, the U.S. Senate nearly paved the way for compromise immigration legislation that

we at the National Urban League fear would have undermined labor protections for all workers in this nation

and would have exacted a great toll on an already-frayed social safety net. Fortunately, U.S. Senate Majority

Leader Harry Reid failed to muster the necessary number of votes to end debate on the measure, which enjoyed

bipartisan support and sponsorship by GOP presidential hopeful Sen. John McCain and liberal stalwart Sen.

Edward Kennedy.

Now, federal lawmakers will be forced to take a second look at the so-called “grand bargain” if they hope

to help President George W. Bush achieve his top domestic priority – that of immigration reform.

Not since 1986 has the U.S. Congress and White House succeeded in enacting legislation designed to tackle

the escalating problem of illegal immigration. Put into effect during the Reagan administration, the

Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 provided for a beefing up of security along the U.S.-Mexican border,

established harsh penalties for employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants, and most notably, granted amnesty

to 2.8 million undocumented workers already in the United States.

A recent Pew Hispanic Center study finds that one in 20 U.S. workers is undocumented. The least-educated

immigrants end up taking the lowest-paying jobs, which makes them extremely vulnerable to exploitation, especially

if they are guest workers or undocumented. To some extent, they compete with less-educated Americans for jobs but

not as much now as in the past when the number of native-born workers with less than a high school diploma was greater.

CBO estimates that the recent influx of less-educated immigrants “probably slows the growth” of wages of Americans with

comparable skills in the short term but only modestly.

Our greatest concern revolves around the legislation’s temporary worker provision that allows U.S.-based companies

to bring as many as 200,000 foreign-born guest workers a year into the nation to stay for up to six years in three-year stints.

Any effort to issue these visas should be narrowly tailored and combined with a requirement that the nation’s current workers –

black, white, Hispanic, Asian and Native American – be given the first right to jobs employers are seeking temporary visas for.

We’re worried that, in the words of the Washington Post, “the cumbersome, unrealistic and unseemly regimen” will produce

a new class of exploitable and exploited workers. It will also require a major commitment to enforcement, which doesn’t appear to

be a huge Bush administration priority. In 2004, the feds issued only three notices that it intended to fine companies for immigration

law violations, down significantly from 417 notices in 1999, according to a 2006 Associated Press story.

That’s where our agreement with the Post, which voiced its support for the compromise as a whole, ends. We’re not

so sold that enacting flawed legislation just to fulfill some grand campaign promise or win a vote on Election Day is in the

best interest of Americans.

We do support establishing a process for illegal immigrants residing in the United States to eventually obtain legal residency

or even citizenship but oppose linking amnesty with temporary worker visas. These are two separate and distinct issues that should

not be confused. It makes the compromise untenable in our eyes.

There’s a dire need for the nation to invest heavily in efforts to recruit, train and place U.S.-born workers for

available jobs instead of allowing business to import labor for the same jobs. But what we’re most concerned about is how an

|

influx of low-cost temporary workers without the protection of labor and minimum wage laws, housing and health benefits will

impact the way business deals with labor in the future and how it’ll affect our social safety net. We’re concerned it’ll exact

a huge cost on the United States, especially on state and local governments and an already overburdened healthcare system.

That’s why we’re urging the Washington establishment to return to the drawing board and produce a real fix for America’s broken

immigration laws that not only reflects our historic compassion for immigrants but also represents sound economic policy.

Marc Morial is President and CEO, National Urban League

Denyce Graves: A True Diva Descends on CSO-by Dwight

Casimere



The much anticipated solo concert by opera megastar,

Mezzo-Soprano Denyce Graves with the Chicago Symphony

Orchestra conducted by veteran opera maestro Emmanuel

Villaume was a world-class event in every sense. From

the moment she walked on stage in an asparagus green

empire gown, worthy of a Greek goddess, Graves exuded

star-power. This is a performer truly worthy of the

term Diva.

The audience came to a hush as she poised herself

to begin the first notes. What came out was sublime.

Her concert explored the romantic repertoire of the

golden age of opera in the last decades of the

nineteenth century; Bizet's 'Carmen', in which she

appeared in the title role at Lyric Opera in the

2005-06 season, Saint-Saens 'Samson et Delilah",

Massenet's "Herodiade, Verdi's "Don Carlo", Cilea's

Adriana Lecouvreur, Mascagni's " Cavalleria Rusticana"

and a selection of Tradtional American Spirituals to

round things out.

Each selection was presented as a showcase for

Grave's considerable vocal talents. Her most

successful arias were from the seldom heard "Celui

dont la parole" from Masssenet's "Herodiade",

selections from "Carmen", of course, and the "Acerba

volutta." from "Adriana Lecouvreur." All explored her

terrific range and ability for dramatic expression.

Her gestures were effective without being campy. At

one moment, she cast her head back and outstretched

her arms as if, symbolically, offering herself in

total, to the audience. The gesture brought thunderous

applause.

Where she most excelled was when she relaxed and

eased into the Traditional Spiritual "Give Me Jesus."

The lush orchestration and interplay between her

voice, the flute, oboe and harp brought out the rich,

deep tones of her lower register. It was an

emotionally gripping moment that was the highlight of

the concert. There were encores, but after feasting on

the 'degustation' of her extensive romantic program

and finishing with the sorbet of her spirituals, I

was satiated. Nothing more was needed. Denyce Graves

will be featured in a Benefit Concert for the

Community Renewal Society Thursday, September 20th at

7pm at the Harris Theatre in Millennium Park. For

information, visit www.communityrenewalsociety.org.

Denyce Graves' Musicians Pension Fund Concert for the

CSO was generously sponsored by the Audrey Love

Charitable Foundation. Next, Symphony Center Presents

Chicago native Mavis Staples and the Blind Boys of

Alabama in concert, Tuesday, June 26th at 7:30pm. For

information, visit www.cso.org.



The Color Purple celebrates life

By: Dwight Casimere/TW

The long-awaited Chicago premiere of The Color Purple is finally underway at the Cadillac Palace Theatre in downtown Chicago. While singer Fantasia is getting all of the notoriety on Broadway in the lead role of Celie, Chicago can pride itself on the

quality of this production. The high-energy cast sweeps the audience along in this epic tale of a young girl’s journey from male-dominated oppression to personal and spiritual growth and independence. The singing is among the best I’ve ever heard on stage, outside of Lyric Opera. The dance numbers, particularly the ones in Act One in the juke joint

and in Act Two in Clie’s evocation of Africa are simply dazzling.

The Chicago premiere is especially significant because “The Color Purple” is produced by a stellar team headed by our very own Oprah Winfrey. Quincy Jones and the Nederlander organization round out an impressive list of producers. Opening night's red

carpet was equivalent to any Broadway opening. In fact, it more resembled a Hollywood premiere with producer Oprah resplendent in an Oscar de la Renta purple gown (Stedman, just out of camera-shot like a dutiful prince-consort), R. Kelly, Jesse Jackson,

Mayor and Maggie Daley, Roger and Chaz Ebert and more.

At the heart of this production is a bravura performance by Chicago native Felicia P. Fields in the starring role of Sofia, the courageous and fiery mountain of a woman who is the heartbeat of the show. She is the polar opposite of Clie, played and sung by Jeannette Bayardelle. Where Nettie is victimized and struggling to find her identity, Sofia is self-assured and courageous to a fault. No man will ever dominate her and beat her as Clie has been. Her courage and outspokenness are both her downfall and her redemption. Did I mention former Destiny’s Child Michelle Williams as Nettie’s consort/mentor Shug Avery? This self-assured, unbelievably beautiful sexual dynamo deserves her

own show. I’d pay to see her, twice. She’s got the pipes, the moves and she can act, too!

All of the performers are exquisite. The sets, costumes and lighting add to the magic. The musical transports you into the post-slavery, turn-of-the-last century world of Nettie, Celie, Mister, Harpo and Sofia. It is a world that is the predicate for black existence in this century. The Color Purple celebrates life and all of its struggles, hidden treasures, defeats and rewards. As the music and dance envelopes you, the lyrics serve

to draw you deeper into the stories of these characters that propel the musical.

By now, you’ve read the book, seen the Academy Award winning film, most recently on cable. In a way, I’m glad I waited to see the musical until the Chicago production. I had just seen the film on cable a few nights before the Chicago premiere, so I was thoroughly backgrounded, but not prepared for the avalanche of emotion that the musical elicited. Jeannette Bayardelle is exceptional as Celie. Her plaintive voice and emotionally wrenching portrayal drive Celie’s struggles and triumphs deep into your soul. When she hit’s a high note at the end of her finale, your spirit soars along with hers.

Of all the performers, the most powerful is Fields. A product of Antioch Baptist

Church in Chicago, and the local Chicago theatre scene, her fire and brimstone and Mahalia Jackson-like voice raise the roof on this stellar production.

Go see “The Color Purple. “ It will enrich your life! For tickets and information, visit www.thecolorpurple.com or call the Cadillac Palace Theatre in the Loop.





Affordable housing options explored



Acting on the top issue raised by social service providers in a February forum, U.S. Representative Jerry Weller (R-Morris) on Tuesday hosted a roundtable meeting of agencies that provide affordable housing, and groups representing clients in need of affordable housing.

“At our community support roundtables in February, it became clear that the number one concern among the people providing social services in Will County is the availability of affordable housing for low-income families, seniors, and people with disabilities,” Weller said. “Housing is a basic need, but for too many people, it’s a struggle to put a roof over your head and still have money for other basic needs like clothes, food, and medication.”

February’s meeting was a chance for social service agencies to address Congress’s top Republican on social service programs. Rep. Weller is now the Ranking Member of the Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee. The body within the House Ways and Means Committee oversees more than $80 billion in federal programs, including Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF), Supplemental Security Income SSI), and unemployment compensation. Affordable housing is a concern for many of the people enrolled in these programs.

“Consider an individual with a disability who relies on Supplemental Security Income,” Weller said. “Last year, that person received $632 a month. The average rent for a one-bedroom apartment in Joliet is $719. Clearly, it will take a partnership of the federal government, and state and local agencies to help these people and others who struggle to afford to rent or buy a home.”

The Department of Housing and Urban Development will spend more than $20 billion on rent assistance for low-income families, seniors, and people with a disability in Fiscal Year 2007, Weller noted. In addition, Weller supported a bill that passed the H

ouse providing $1.4 billion over four years to make housing more affordable for low-income families. The Federal Housing Finance Reform Act (HR 1427) establishes an Affordable Housing Fund to distribute the money. Weller has also been a strong supporter of the low income housing tax credit.

“While we can increase our commitment to fund affordable housing programs in Washington, it’s really the local realtors and social service agencies that have their finger on the pulse of the problem locally,” Weller said. “I organized this meeting so they have a chance to listen and learn from each other, and to let them know my door is open to listen to ways to provide a better quality of life for those in search of affordable housing.”



Local Clergy step up support for fired worker

By: John Gabriel/TW

jtimesweekly@yahoo.com

Joliet Pastor and Reverend, Herb Brooks, was among the first to arrive on Friday, June 1st, to support fired Barbara Jones in her continuing efforts to win back her position with the Lemont Nursing and Rehabilitation Center located at 12450 Walker Road in Lemont.

The Times-Weekly has covered Jones protests since she began contesting her dismissal in December 2006. Jones, so far has failed to gain a large number of people to support her efforts and her protests have failed to elicit any reaction from the personnel at the center except for one occasion when the Lemont Police came to ask the protesters to leave the property.

Reverend Brooks said he continues to support Jones even though up to this point she has not been successful. “I think justice needs to be served and right is right. So far they have refused to talk to us and in my opinion that is an admission of guilt; there is no legal or legitimate reason why this Lemont Rehab Center should not sit down and talk with us at the table and come to an agreement. The fact that they are staying inside and refusing to talk to us proves to me that they are wrong. I continue to believe that justice has to be served some way at some time,” Brooks said.

Barbara Jones alleges that she and ten other employees who sought union representation were dismissed because they attempted to organize and to restore medical benefits that were discontinued. Jones contends that she was officially dismissed because she dropped a patient’s food tray in the cafeteria. Neither Eric Rothner nor Frank Guajardo, both principals of the rehab center, have been willing to be interviewed.

Jones has attempted to fight her battle against the Lemont Nursing and Rehabilitation Center without the assistance of an attorney. That may have contributed to her failure to persuade the National Labor Relations Board to restore her to her former position. She claims she lost an opportunity to present her case to the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission (EEOC) because the decision of the NLRB came after the due date for filing a claim with the EEOC. Jones is a single mother whose income is insufficient to engage the services of an attorney specializing in labor law and few pro se litigants are successful in court.

Jones says she has requested the participation of Reverend Jesse Jackson but to date he has not assisted her and he has not confronted the management of the center on her behalf. It is unlikely the center will ever respond to the protests of a limited number of supporters. Her opponent’s strategy is clearly to pretend she is not there. Up to now it has been effective. The IBEW, which now represents the employees, has not made a physical appearance on Jones’ behalf during her protests at the rehab center.

Barbara Jones has the continuing support of local clergyman, including Rev. Herb Brooks, and Pastors Hector Edwards, Richard House, Craig Purchase, Isaac Singleton, and Ray Lesher and she seeks to add to that support from others including her church members.

more on story...

Senator’s proposed amendment shakes things up for the Will County Board

A proposed legislative amendment drafted by Senator Debbie Halvorson (D-40th Dist.) would change Will County Board hiring practices if approved and this doesn’t make everyone happy. The board is comprised of only 7 democrats and 20 republicans and the proposal is largely opposed by the majority side.

According to Commissioner Frank Stewart, the current process is “full of scrutiny”. Right now candidates must present their credentials, letters of recommendation, etc. before the entire board and the majority of the board must approve the candidate for employment. The amendment, which the democrat members urged Halvorson to draft, suggests that department heads and the County Board Executive be the decision makers for new hires.

“I’m very disappointed in the amendment”, said Commissioner John Gerl. “It eliminates a very needed set of checks and balances. The Executive would be allowed to hire at will. I don’t think this advances county politics”, Gerl said. Commissioner James Blackburn agrees with Gerl and also explained his concern that the Board was not given notification of the proposal and was made aware after it was already filed. ”This smacks of Chicago-style politics. The current system was established by the voters and it should not be done this way.”

more on story....

WHY IS LORNA PAISLEY HOSTILE AND SECRETIVE?

By: John Gabriel/TW

jtimesweekly@yahoo.com

Who are the people operating behind the scenes waging a seemingly unending battle to get Lorna Paisley into Joliet politics? The Times Weekly uncovered the fact that former Green Party Chairman Tim Tacker and Green party member Dan Kalnes were working diligently to assist her campaign for the 4th District Joliet City Council Seat prior to the April 17th Election. Also exposed was the fact that Kalnes had quietly gained access to the Will County Democratic office in Joliet in the period prior to the November 2006 Election and that his wife Abby Strasser had keys to the headquarters that gave the couple unrestricted access within that building. Kalnes operated under the guise of being a democrat at the time but admitted later that he was an active member of the Green Party. Kalnes denied any wrongdoing.

Lorna Paisley, in an interview on Monday May 21st, said she currently has no association with the Green Party but did file a professionally constructed “Petition For Discovery Recount” with the County Clerk on May 10th. The petition is drafted in legal vernacular and cites an authority pursuant to a particular Chapter and paragraph of the Illinois Compiled Statutes but Paisley denies that an attorney drafted the petition. Paisley did sign the document.

On May 21st Will County Clerk Nancy Schultz Voots conducted an official recount in response to that petition. Eight members of the Clerk’s staff, including the Clerk herself, conducted the recount that was observed by Mary Tatroe of the States Attorneys Office and Jamie Rough from Election Systems Software whose company is responsible for the voting system.

An entourage of five people accompanied Lorna Paisley. After being repeatedly pressed for an answer she conceded that an attorney who was present was there on her behalf but she refused to say who hired him or why, or at whose request he was representing her in the recount matter. After several requests for a straight-forward answer Paisley said, “He was there on my behalf.” When she was asked who paid for her attorney Paisley said, “I don’t know.” When Paisley was asked for her attorney’s name she responded arrogantly, “Why don’t you ask the County Clerk?”

Lorna Paisley was asked if she intends to continue to question the election results, she responded, “We haven’t decided.” But when asked who “We” are she refused to answer. The people who attended the recount on her behalf were Lisa Kraus, Janis Tomas, Patricia Reiss, Bruce Teyley, Chuck McCauley, and Daniel Gorman.

The recount was carried out meticulously and the final tally corresponded with the results of April 17th that determined the winner in 4th District to be Susie Barber. Barber was sworn in as Councilwoman for the 4th District on May 8th. Paisley could file challenges to the signatures of the voters but it is likely that the court would summarily dismiss such a request unless there was some indication of foul play in the election.

The election results were close, but they are not as intriguing as the mystery that surrounds Lorna Paisley and the friends whose identities she conceals, why her attorney should be a an unnamed figure in the shadows, or why she does not know who paid her attorney’s fees.

Why would an attorney file a Petition anonymously for a client? If someone other than an attorney produced Paisley’s Petition that person may be practicing law without a license and the mystery deepens. The recount proved to be legitimate, but Lorna Paisley’s friends, whom she refuses to identify, remains a secret?

more on story....Memorial Day “Click it or Ticket” Safety Belt Campaign to target nighttime drivers

The Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) and Illinois State Police (ISP) are teaming up with more than 300 local police agencies to mount the largest ever nighttime safety belt enforcement effort in Illinois. During the Memorial Day “Click it or Ticket” mobilization, motorists can expect more than 3,600 safety belt enforcement zones statewide, with almost 700 enforcement zones planned for after dark, the time when surveys show more drivers fail to buckle up.

“Memorial Day marks the beginning of the busy summer holiday travel season and reminds travelers that the single most important way to protect yourself and your family is by buckling up,” said IDOT Acting Secretary Milton Sees. “Governor Rod Blagojevich signed the primary safety belt law in 2003 and since then we have seen a 12 percent increase in belt usage while at the same time a sharp reduction in fatalities. But we know that safety belt use drops off at night, and that’s why it is so important that police departments across the state are stepping up their nighttime enforcement activities.”

Studies have shown high-risk drivers buckle up less at night. In 2005, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, nearly 60 percent of all motor vehicle occupants killed during the night were unbelted. The statewide Memorial Day enforcement effort comes as IDOT’s Division of Traffic Safety (DTS) and its traffic safety partners across the state are aiming to reach 90 percent safety belt compliance statewide and build on the safest year on Illinois roads in more than 80 years. Traffic fatalities fell below 1,300 for the first time since 1924, with more than 100 fewer people killed on Illinois highways during 2006 than 2005.

Preliminary data shows there were 1,254 traffic deaths on Illinois roadways in 2006, the lowest total since 1,065 deaths recorded in 1924. Since 2003, traffic fatalities have dropped from 1,454 to 1,355 in 2004 and 1,363 in 2005. During that same timeframe safety belt usage has increased each year from 76 percent usage in 2003 to 88 percent usage in 2006.

“Our officers will be placing special emphasis on both residential and rural roadways,” ISP Director Larry Trent said. “Whether running an errand during the day or driving at night on an expressway or interstate, motorists are at equal risk of being involved in a traffic crash. No matter the destination, always wear your safety belt. We won’t compromise on our efforts to save lives.”

Illinois is striving to reach 90 percent safety belt compliance - during a statewide annual survey conducted in June - through high visibility enforcement, community education, and paid media. IDOT is calling on communities to join their Click it or Ticket campaign to reach 90 percent safety belt compliance statewide.

Gov. Blagojevich has made improving traffic safety a priority for his administration and has actively supported legislation to reduce fatalities on our state’s highways. Some of the measures put into effect by Governor Blagojevich include:

• A law that bans teen drivers from carrying more than one passenger for the first six months after receiving their license;

• A law that bans cell phone use by drivers under 18;

• Requiring drivers under 18 to make sure that their teen passengers are buckled properly in the front and back seats;

• The primary safety belt enforcement law that allows officers to stop and ticket drivers for not wearing a safety belt; and

• A law that raised the age at which children must be in a restraint system or booster seat from 4 to 8.

For more information about traffic safety programs in Illinois, and to get involved in the effort to reach 90 percent safety belt compliance in Illinois, go to www.buckleupillinois.org.

more on story....County Executive looks beyond the election of Obama

By: John Gabriel/TW

jtimesweekly@yahoo.com

Last Week Will County Executive Larry Walsh reported on his trip to Washington where he sought the release of funds allocated for Will County Projects. This week we continue our discussion with him on other issues.

County Executive Lawrence “Larry” Walsh turned his attention to the rapid growth of the county and to the influx of new businesses to the area. “Will County has always been primarily rural in nature, but we are losing more and more of our farm land to other uses. Growth is inevitable. People are attracted to Will County because we have so much to offer. We have space and we offer opportunity. Currently about 49% of the county is rural.”

“One of my major concerns is that of the large companies who move into these modern, huge facilities, some, for example, as large as 1.2 million square feet, who then out-source many of the jobs they have created. We need to stress the importance of corporations being employers and paying living wages and benefits.”

Walsh explained that companies often hire employees from other firms to fill jobs such as lift truck operators to avoid many costs and benefits. He said local government must work with such companies so they can provide jobs but do it without jeopardizing their positions in the business world. While he did not make any immediate suggestions for raising wages he did say that in today’s economic world even $13.50 an hour is not sufficient to sustain a decent standard of living under most circumstances.

Walsh spoke of how the “global economy” and local development of businesses by foreign companies might affect Will County. “John Grueling and the CED [Center for Economic Development] have traveled to China in search of investment in Will County. When they went to seminars and receptions the Chinese people knew a great deal about Will County, more so than they did of the people who went to China to represent us. I believe we are going to see some important investments in the county and with them the important creation of more jobs.”

Walsh said the county must not haphazardly throw open its doors to those who want to establish businesses here. The county has to examine the entire scheme of things and plan appropriately to avoid mistakes we might regret in time to come according to Walsh.

He enthusiastically discussed the possibility that Senator Barack Obama could become the next president of the U.S. He was asked: If Senator Obama becomes our next president might there be a place in Washington for Larry Walsh?

“Senator Obama is my very dear friend and if I were asked to be a part of his administration that would be an honor and a challenge, but you know my roots are here in Will County, my family is here, and my grandkids are here. I would certainly have to weigh that decision carefully. I enjoy my job as County Executive, and all of that enters into such a proposition; it would not be easy to decide.”

Illinois faith based association lobbies support Governor Blagojevich’s plans

With the skyrocketing costs of healthcare, deteriorating inner city schools and the number of uninsured people in Illinois climbing to nearly 1.5 million, members of the Illinois Faith Based Association (ILFBA) said “enough is enough, things have to change.” Hundreds of members of ILFBA drove from all corners of the state on May 16th to gather in Springfield calling for legislators to pass Governor Blagojevich’s ambitious proposal to provide affordable access to healthcare for all, make a historic investment in public schools, and relieve the tax burden on individuals by asking big businesses to pay their fair share. The group delivered legislators a joint letter signed by over 100 pastors from across the state. The letter reinforces the call to legislators to listen to their constituents, not lobbyists paid for by large wealthy corporations, and approve the Governor’s historic plan.

“As a minister, it’s heartbreaking to see the members of my congregation struggling daily with the skyrocketing costs of healthcare, finding quality education for their children, and paying more than their fair share in taxes,” said Rev. Walter P. Turner III, pastor of New Spiritual Light Missionary Baptist Church in Chicago and president of the Illinois Faith Based Association, which represents hundreds of churches statewide. “Governor Blagojevich’s plan will help to alleviate the burdens of those families who are working hard by making large companies pay their fair share. I thank the Governor for taking such proactive steps to address the struggles of Illinois families.”

Governor Blagojevich’s budget plan includes the Illinois Covered plan to provide affordable comprehensive insurance to all Illinoisans, the Helping Kids Learn plan to invest an additional $10 billion in Illinois schools over the next four years, the Tax Fairness Plan that requires wealthy businesses to pay their fair share and gives the middle class the relief it deserves, a transportation plan to improve Illinois’ roads and rail systems and create jobs, and a plan to address the state’s long-time pension deficit.

“We are excited about coming to Springfield to talk to the various members of the legislature and to show our support of Governor Blagojevich’s plan to Invest in Illinois Families,” said Pastor Tony Pierce, Co-Senior Pastor of Heaven’s View Christian Fellowship in Peoria. “The members of the Illinois Faith Based Association are in favor of the Governor’s plan because we want to see more dollars flowing into the education of our children, especially to address the increasing achievement gap for the children that come from urban centers, where the funding doesn’t provide as many dollars as those in the suburbs. Also, the present healthcare crisis is breaking the backs of millions of American families. We need the dollars proposed in the Governor’s Tax Fairness Plan to help those families who are suffering in this present environment.”

The Illinois Faith Based Association (IFBA) acknowledges God as the author and finisher of our faith. We believe that by this faith, our communities will be exalted. We reflect on the role of the church in the history of the United States and hereby assume the responsibility of implementing systemic revitalization of community, rejuvenation of people and the solidification of family. The Illinois Faith Based Association is wholeheartedly committed to this pursuit.

more on story....Let’s Help to Increase Homeownership

By. Harry C. Alford

NNPA Columnist

“BEYOND THE RHETORIC”

A new federal income tax deduction has the double benefit of reducing the tax burden on low and moderate income families while also helping promote homeownership throughout our nation. The new deduction enables qualified families who buy or refinance a home in tax year 2007 to deduct government and private mortgage insurance premiums paid on their loan.

Passage of this tax break is good for families and good for communities, and Congress should vote to continue the deduction – now scheduled to expire at the end of the year – into the future.

I have argued for a long time that our government should find ways to lesson the tax burden on Americans, and this tax change is focused directly on helping low and moderate income families. This change in tax law could mean an estimated $300 to $350 tax savings per family for those who qualify.

Under this new law, private and government mortgage insurance premiums are fully tax deductible for borrowers who buy or refinance a home this year if their adjusted gross income is $100,000 or less. Families with incomes of more than $100,000 and up to $109,000 will be eligible for a reduced deduction.

The National Black Chamber of Commerce believes that affordable housing is essential, and we have been working to help low and moderate income families find affordable homes. This tax deduction is a big step in the right direction in making the goal of affordable homeownership a reality for many African-Americans.

Homeownership also benefits communities, as people who own a home feel more invested in their neighborhoods, which in turn helps creates safer, more stable communities.

On the other side, studies show that communities with low ownership are inherently less prosperous, less stable, and suffer a disproportionate share of social ills, including higher crime rates, illiteracy, and unemployment. These communities become a blue print for a future ghetto. Such has been our plight as we witnessed Compton, Inglewood, Gary, Detroit, etc. turn from prosperity to blight.

This new tax break will also help narrow the homeownership gap for minorities. While Census figures show that the national homeownership rate is 68.9 percent, only about 46 percent of African Americans own their homes.

The National Black Chamber of Commerce supported passage by Congress of this deduction, along with a broad coalition of African-American, Hispanic, housing, consumer and taxpayer groups.

The approval of this new tax break was important because it’s the first time that mortgage insurance premiums are tax deductible. But the law provided the deduction only for 2007, and Congress should renew that provision beyond this year – and continue giving taxpayers this needed assistance.

Mortgage insurance is usually required by lenders on home loans when the buyer does not have at least 20 percent for a down payment. In today’s market, that 20 percent threshold is out of reach for many families. Consider this: the median price of a home today in our country is about $220,000, which means that a family would need to save $44,000 to have a 20 percent down payment.

That’s not very realistic to expect, and it is not what is happening in the real estate market. A recent study by the National Association of Realtors of home transactions between the middle of 2005 and the middle of 2006 found that the typical first-time buyer had a down payment of only 2 percent – far less than the traditional 20 percent required by lenders.

Our government policies should do as much as possible to help promote homeownership, especially in times like these when real estate market conditions are changing and people are increasingly worried about risky exotic home financing arrangements.

Thankfully, there are indications that Congress understands how important it is to extend this tax deduction. A bipartisan group of members of the U.S. House of Representatives have joined together to introduce legislation (HR 1813) to continue the mortgage insurance tax deduction.

The House and the U.S. Senate should get behind this bill, continue the tax deduction for mortgage insurance and show their continued support for strengthening homeownership in America. More of us should feel free to call their respective congressional office as well as their senators and simply voice support of this legislation. Simply say “I want the congressman/senator to support HR 1813. It is good for home owners and those who want to own a home. Thank you.” Simple calls and emails like that can make a difference. Politicians move to the lines of least resistance and listen to the mood of their constituents. It is important that they understand the mood of the people who can re-elect them or vote them out. You will get their attention if you show that you care and are watching them.

Harry Alford is the co-founder, President/CEO, of the National Black Chamber of Commerce. Website: www.nationalbcc.org.

more on story....Will the entire village please stand up?

By: Nicole Jolicoeur/TW

njtimesweekly@yahoo.com

Violence usually begets nothing more than more violence. The recent heightened level of gang violence, shootings and mayhem caused at a local high school are evidence of this. Starting with one shooting that claimed the life of 19-year old, Devron D. Weddington, then another youth wiped out when 15-year old Michael W. Hamilton was fatally shot. In the midst of all the travesty, funerals and grieving it continues with police responding to more, possibly linked, violent drive-by shootings and incited rumors of shooting at Joliet West High School creating frenzy and panic for students, staff and parents who understandably bought into the scare knowing the track record for violence in their community. It’s a problem that is out of control and needs expedient resolution.

Who’s responsible for the problem? Obviously those who pull the triggers. Are they however, the ones standing on the front line? Or are they a resulting party of failed citizens who’ve reached wits end, find no value to life (be it their own or others) after crossing paths with many other living souls who could’ve, should’ve, would’ve but didn’t reach out and pull them up saving them from a sinking pool of destruction. The pool of destruction for many of the violence pushers may have been child abuse or molestation that went ignored; a learning disability that wasn’t addressed; or maybe just a child who wanted to talk and nobody would bother to listen. How many times has a child been passed by while sinking with no good samaritan willing to throw out a lifeline to save them?

Many of them will find a way to pull out of the pool by any means necessary even if this means clinging on to a post of crime, drug use, violence, etc. Once they grab a hold to that post many never let it go. And why should they, they ask. That is the post that was there for them when no one else cared. The post that provided a way out from continuing to face a deep pool of contents that hurt, scarred and shamed their young lives.

Certainly there are some good samaritan posts called teachers, mentors and leaders who care and extend themselves as much as they can. Thank God for them. But where’s the rest of the village? History has proven there is tremendous power and strength in numbers. While we can no longer save Weddington or Hamilton, maybe the village can and will form a resolve to collectively save others. After the resolve is formed, those in positions of power must act responsibly and proactively- campaigning just as hard as they did to gain that power to create a non-violent, safe community. They need to be forced to make things happen, creating a positive reality instead of just optimistic debate.

Optimism regarding the crisis is welcomed but as the Holy Bible clearly states “Faith without works is dead” (James 2:20). Nothing beats a failure but a try – so the entire village must start standing together one-by-one, day by day to throw out those lifelines and save the future. Are you willing to stand up?

more on story....Will the entire village please stand up?

By: Nicole Jolicoeur/TW

njtimesweekly@yahoo.com

Violence usually begets nothing more than more violence. The recent heightened level of gang violence, shootings and mayhem caused at a local high school are evidence of this. Starting with one shooting that claimed the life of 19-year old, Devron D. Weddington, then another youth wiped out when 15-year old Michael W. Hamilton was fatally shot. In the midst of all the travesty, funerals and grieving it continues with police responding to more, possibly linked, violent drive-by shootings and incited rumors of shooting at Joliet West High School creating frenzy and panic for students, staff and parents who understandably bought into the scare knowing the track record for violence in their community. It’s a problem that is out of control and needs expedient resolution.

Who’s responsible for the problem? Obviously those who pull the triggers. Are they however, the ones standing on the front line? Or are they a resulting party of failed citizens who’ve reached wits end, find no value to life (be it their own or others) after crossing paths with many other living souls who could’ve, should’ve, would’ve but didn’t reach out and pull them up saving them from a sinking pool of destruction. The pool of destruction for many of the violence pushers may have been child abuse or molestation that went ignored; a learning disability that wasn’t addressed; or maybe just a child who wanted to talk and nobody would bother to listen. How many times has a child been passed by while sinking with no good samaritan willing to throw out a lifeline to save them?

Many of them will find a way to pull out of the pool by any means necessary even if this means clinging on to a post of crime, drug use, violence, etc. Once they grab a hold to that post many never let it go. And why should they, they ask. That is the post that was there for them when no one else cared. The post that provided a way out from continuing to face a deep pool of contents that hurt, scarred and shamed their young lives.

Certainly there are some good samaritan posts called teachers, mentors and leaders who care and extend themselves as much as they can. Thank God for them. But where’s the rest of the village? History has proven there is tremendous power and strength in numbers. While we can no longer save Weddington or Hamilton, maybe the village can and will form a resolve to collectively save others. After the resolve is formed, those in positions of power must act responsibly and proactively- campaigning just as hard as they did to gain that power to create a non-violent, safe community. They need to be forced to make things happen, creating a positive reality instead of just optimistic debate.

Optimism regarding the crisis is welcomed but as the Holy Bible clearly states “Faith without works is dead” (James 2:20). Nothing beats a failure but a try – so the entire village must start standing together one-by-one, day by day to throw out those lifelines and save the future. Are you willing to stand up?