Domestic violence accounted for two women's deaths, authorities say



Clackamas County's eight homicide victims in 2007 included a Texas teenager who was visiting her half-sister in Oregon and a Molalla woman who was killed by her husband in an apparent murder-suicide.

They ranged in age from 15 to 55. Three were women, and two of them allegedly were killed by their husbands. More than half of the victims were acquainted with the people accused of killing them.

Two were fatally shot by police; in 2006, no one died from police shootings. In 2005, four people were shot and killed by police.

The number of homicides this year decreased from 2006 and 2005. In each of those years, 10 people died by homicide.

-- Jessica Bruder; jessicabruder@news.oregonian.com

Here are the eight Clackamas County homicides from 2007:

Christopher Grant Lucas, a 36-year-old medically fragile father from Canby, died in a fistfight at a Jan. 13 football playoff party. Judge Robert Selander determined that Matthew Jay Stutzman, 28, of Beaverton was responsible for the blow that killed Lucas. Stutzman was convicted of criminally negligent homicide and sentenced to more than two years in prison. The state medical examiner's office said the underlying cause of Lucas' death was a condition called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which enlarges the heart. According to prosecutor Shannon Kmetic, Stutzman knew Lucas had heart problems before striking him and told a police officer he "hit the cripple" who "died of a heart attack."

Eileen Henderson, 52, was tending flowers in front of her Milwaukie home May 7 when she was struck and killed by a white Lincoln Navigator, in what police believe was a deliberate act by her estranged husband. Robert Ellis Henderson, 66, was charged with murder and is being held without bail at the Clackamas County Jail. His trial has been scheduled for April 29. According to court papers, Eileen Henderson filed for divorce April 13, more than 30 years after she married Robert Henderson. The couple had no children together, and she requested that the court divide their assets equitably, with the exception of her father's ring and their two miniature schnauzers, which she hoped to keep. Police said they had been called to domestic disturbances at the couple's home in the 10500 block of Southeast River Way Lane several times over the past few years.

Justin Robert Warren, 29, of Milwaukie was fatally shot May 10 in the 15000 block of Southeast McLoughlin Boulevard. The shooting occurred near Dotty's Restaurant in the Oak Grove area south of Milwaukie. Hours after Warren died at OHSU Hospital, police arrested Phillip Anh Tran, 25, during a traffic stop at Southeast 85th Avenue and Flavel Street in Portland. Police believe that Tran was selling drugs in a car when he recognized Warren -- "someone he knows and does not like" -- approaching, and that Tran got out of the car and shot him, said prosecutor Mike Regan. Warren was unarmed, Regan said. Tran was charged in Warren's death and also faces unrelated drug and firearm charges. His trial is scheduled for Jan. 22.

Ricardo Clinton Stokes, 55, of Wilsonville died May 29 on a neighbor's porch, where he had gone for help after he was violently assaulted in his home. Clackamas County sheriff's deputies arrested Wendell K. Tate, 38, after finding his blood-covered clothing in a restaurant trash bin near his Northeast Portland home, according to court documents. Tate was lodged without bail in Clackamas County Jail on charges of aggravated murder, murder and first-degree burglary. His trial has been set for May 13. A friend of Stokes told investigators that Stokes said he'd been having an affair with Tate's wife and that Tate had repeatedly threatened Stokes over the relationship. The night before his death, Stokes told the friend that the affair was over, but he "wanted to see her to get closure."

Luke Lewis Seal, 24, of Portland was fatally shot Jun. 18 by a Clackamas County sheriff's deputy after he came at her with a pair of knives. Deputy Hilary Robinson shot Seal three times in the chest and abdomen at the Greenhouse Square shopping center on Southeast 82nd Drive in Clackamas. A grand jury cleared her of wrongdoing. The man's father, Lewis Seal, said his son seemed angry the night before about his wages being garnisheed for child support. Luke Seal, who had a 3-year-old son, had been unemployed for about a year but recently found temporary work, his father said.

Dani Countryman, 15, of Kaufman, Texas, was killed at a Milwaukie apartment complex in July after an all-night party marking the end of her month visiting family in Oregon. Two men at the party -- Alejandro Emeterio Rivera Gamboa, 24, of Clackamas and his cousin, Gilberto Javier Arellano Gamboa, 23, of Milwaukie -- were charged with aggravated murder, attempted rape and attempted sex abuse. Their trial is scheduled for Sept. 30. Both men were living in the United States illegally, and Rivera Gamboa had two 2006 convictions for driving under the influence of intoxicants. His arrest prompted county officials to adopt tighter screening policies for illegal immigrants in the criminal justice system. Investigators believe Arellano Gamboa had Countryman pinned to the floor and called his cousin to help subdue her. Rivera Gamboa responded by stepping on Countryman's throat until she stopped moving, the investigators wrote in court documents. Countryman had been visiting family in Oregon for about a month. She was scheduled to fly home July 28, hours after her sister found her body.

Shawn DeVoe Mosley, 48, was fatally shot by a Clackamas County sheriff's deputy during an Aug. 28 traffic stop. Mosley brandished a gun when Deputy Robert Nashif pulled over his minivan, which was missing a front license plate, on Oregon 212 at Southeast Foster Road, said Sgt. Lee Eby, a sheriff's spokesman. Both men fired, but it wasn't clear who shot first, Eby said. Mosley died at the scene of gunshot wounds. Nashif was uninjured. A grand jury cleared Nashif of wrongdoing. Mosley's ex-wife, Ronda Mosley of Eagle Creek, said they had 18-year-old twin sons together. She said Shawn Mosley was unemployed and had recently sold his motor home. She said he had anger problems and financial troubles, but she didn't know why he would have pulled the gun.

Kimberly Ann Hayes, 29, of Molalla was shot and killed Nov. 17, in what police believed was a murder-suicide by her husband, Gary William Hayes Jr., 30. A guest in the home saw Hayes armed with a gun and arguing with his wife in the kitchen. The guest then heard two gunshots, said Detective Jim Strovink, a Clackamas County sheriff's spokesman. Kimberly Hayes was killed with a single gunshot wound, and her husband was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, Strovink said.