Two members of the Chattanooga Police SWAT Team were forced to fatally shoot a man - 46-year-old James Harold Brooks - who was pointing a Chinese-made assault rifle at them.

The incident took place at 509 Ely Road, just off Ashland Terrace. Patrol officers were first called to the home around 9:15 p.m. Thursday on a domestic violence call.

Two patrol officers who entered the home found Brooks wearing camouflage fatigue clothing, body armor, a gas mask, and armed with assault rifles and assorted other guns. He had apparently been drinking since early in the evening, and had reportedly beaten his wife and adult daughter.

Initially, officers were able to carry on a conversation with Brooks and were able to remove several handguns and at least one shotgun from the home. SWAT officers were called a short time later when he became more threatening. Residents of nearby homes and apartments were evacuated as a precaution.

Police spokesman Ed Buice said, "As they arrived, SWAT's main objective was to remove the patrol officers from the house and allow negotiators to try to talk the man into giving up and coming out of the house.

"As the officers were backing out of the house, the man came at them with a MAC 90 assault rifle. Before he could fire a shot, a SWAT officer fired several rounds from his weapon, an HK53 (a .223) The bullets penetrated the man's body armor, striking him in the chest.

"After falling, the suspect lifted the assault rifle toward the officers again, and a second SWAT officer fired several rounds from his HK MP5, (a 9mm) also striking the suspect in the chest area. At least one of the bullets fired hit the man in the heart.

"The SWAT Team paramedic was just a few yards away from the man when he was hit, and began treating his wounds almost immediately. SWAT Surgeon, Dr. David Ciraulo, a trauma surgeon at Erlanger, ran from the command post to the house and also began working on the suspect within minutes."

Brooks was rushed to the hospital, but due to the extent of his wounds he died a short time later.

After the shooting, it was found that the rifle was loaded and ready to fire. Two 30 round "banana" clips taped together were on the weapon.

Homicide, Internal Affairs, and Crime Scene detectives worked through the night following up on the case.

The names of the officers involved have not yet been released.

The officers who fired the rounds which hit Brooks have been placed on routine administrative leave. This is intended to give officers time to debrief after a deadly force incident, Mr. Buice said.

Officers have been to the house six times in the last four months answering burglar alarms. Prior to that, they were called to a "disorder with a weapon" call in October of 1999, and an "unknown trouble" call in April of 1999.