PASADENA – A man who died after being Tasered by police on Tuesday has been identified as 36-year-old Richard Baisner of Arcadia.

Pasadena police officers received numerous calls about a half-naked man acting erratically in public just after 3 p.m. on Tuesday.

They arrived at Hill Avenue and Maple Street to find a man, bloodied by apparently self-inflicted wounds, who resisted efforts to handcuff him, said Cmdr. Eric Mills.

An officer used a Taser weapon on Baisner once, bringing him to the ground. He was transported to Huntington Hospital and pronounced dead at 4:20 p.m.

“The way it was deployed in this particular situation was

100 percent appropriate,” Mills said. “When other methods fail, that’s one of the steps we have available to us.”

The cause of death is currently unknown, said Lt. Fred Corral from the Los Angeles County Coroner’s Office. Drug and alcohol tests are pending.

Though he was unarmed, Baisner’s behavior justified the use of force, Mills said.

“He threatened at least two people,” Mills said, adding that the Taser is considered a non-lethal weapon. “The circumstances dictate (what methods are used). It’s a tool that we’ve made available to officers. It’s not something that is used casually.”

Wearing only a shirt, Baisner was seen sitting on a small utility box on a Hill Avenue center divider, spinning around, said Edwin Munoz, 17, who lives in the area and saw Baisner struggle with officers.

Before police arrived, Baisner repeatedly hit his head against a light fixture and banged his head and fist against Munoz’s father’s car while his father was in it, Munoz said.

“He was talking real weird,” Munoz said. Baisner alternated between gibberish and coherency, he said. “He kept saying, `Call the police, call 9-1-1.”‘

Baisner had earlier chased a woman around her front lawn, Mills said.

Officers “were being real nice to the guy, telling him to relax,” Munoz said. At one point, two officers had a hold on either side of Baisner’s shoulders, but he continued to struggle.

After the Taser was used, Baisner seemed calmer, but still was unpredictable – he began banging his head against the pavement.

“By the looks of how much blood there was,” he was probably using some force, Munoz said.

patricia.ho@sgvn.com

(626) 578-6300, Ext. 4586