A lovesick gunman was killed in a 135-shot gun battle with Brooklyn cops yesterday after he pumped two bullets into his ex-girlfriend's door amid a wild carjacking spree, police said.

Victor Gordon, a parolee with 10 arrests on his record, began his hour-long rampage about 1:50 p.m. yesterday by pointing a gun at the head of a Brooklyn man who was in a car with his young daughter just south of Prospect Park and ordering them out of the vehicle.

Advertisement

Gordon, 23, then drove the stolen black Dodge Charger to his ex-girlfriend's apartment on President St. in Crown Heights and demanded to see her, although she had kicked him out hours earlier. "He just came here and started shooting at the door," said the woman's mother, who asked not to be identified. "We weren't even home."

The couple has a 2-year-old son. Gordon also has a 5-year-old son from another relationship.

Advertisement

One of the bullets ricocheted off the metal door and grazed Gordon. The drunken ex-con then ran out of the building and fell down the front steps. He dropped his gun, sending a group of children running.

Gordon picked up the weapon, pointed it at the kids and got back into the stolen Charger, eventually slamming it into a vacant storefront on Troy Ave. and Pacific St. in Weeksville.

He bolted from the wreck and tried to carjack a man driving two children in a Nissan Maxima. The driver sped off unharmed.

A police source said Gordon fired at the Maxima and missed, instead hitting the driver of a gold Jeep Cherokee in the forearm. Ronald Miles, 46, of Queens was in stable condition at Kings County Hospital late yesterday.

Gordon next pointed the gun at a livery cab stopped at Albany Ave. and Bergen St. He opened the door, pulled the driver out and threw him to the ground.

Gordon then smashed the Lincoln Town Car into a utility pole at Albany Ave. and Park Place near the Albany Houses. Unaware Gordon was armed and dangerous, more than a dozen onlookers tried to help him out of the car.

"Gas is leaking!" they screamed, according to witness Ricky Williams, 46. "Get out!"

The crowd and paramedics backed off after the maniac pointed his gun at them. He climbed through the window of the car and squared off with police officers.

Advertisement

Witnesses and police said Gordon fired first, and the officers shot back. Gordon ran, ducking between parked cars and ignoring orders to drop the gun.

Even after Gordon was wounded, he refused to give up. "He kept firing," Williams said.

The shootout ended when Gordon fell to the ground, mortally wounded. A law enforcement source said the high number of shots fired was fueled by the suspect repeatedly popping up and crouching down in what witnesses said looked like a video game.

"He's very quiet when he's with the family," said the dead man's aunt, Doris Mears, 45.

rmoore@nydailynews.com