Eight people were shot Sunday, five of whom died, including a parolee out of prison for two months who shot himself after a standoff with police, authorities said.

Logene Newton, 27, was a passenger in a van at about 12:30 a.m. when he shot a man in the head near 59th Street and Calumet Avenue on Chicago's South Side, police said. The victim was in a car in a vacant lot, police said.

Advertisement

Witnesses gave a description of the shooter's vehicle to police, who radioed an alert to squad cars in the area, Officer John Henry said.

About 50 minutes later, a block away in the 5800 block of South Indiana Avenue, police saw that vehicle and pulled it over, Henry said. "As they approached the vehicle, they heard the gunshot from inside," he said.

Advertisement

The female driver exited the van just as gunfire rang out, Henry said.

Newton, whose address was listed in the 800 block of North Wildwood Avenue in Kankakee, was taken to Stroger Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, a spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner's office said. According to an autopsy done Sunday, he died of a single gunshot wound to the head.

The man shot at 59th and Calumet was taken to Stroger in critical condition.

Newton had been serving a 2-year sentence at Logan Correctional Center in Downstate Lincoln on a November 2006 conviction in Kankakee County for possession of a firearm by a felon, but he was paroled May 15. Cook County court records indicated he was convicted in 1997 on attempted murder charges and was sentenced to 9 years in prison.

Police did not know the motive, and Wentworth Area detectives are investigating, Henry said.

Later Sunday, a man was seriously wounded Sunday evening after he was shot several times about 5:30 p.m. in the 5300 block of South Sawyer Avenue, Chicago Police Officer Tom Polick said.

The victim was in serious condition at a local hospital Sunday evening, Polick said. The shooting may be gang-related, police said.

Earlier, Issac Thomas, 27, was fatally shot in the head at about 3 p.m. in the 5700 block of South Green Street, authorities said. He was taken to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead, police said.

Advertisement

Early Sunday, a man was killed and another injured in a drive-by shooting on the Near Northwest Side, police said.

The men were standing in the 700 block of North Willard Court at about 1 a.m. when men in a passing vehicle opened fire, Officer Tom Polick said.

Both men were taken to Stroger Hospital, where one of them -- Daniel Hernandez, 25, of the 1200 block of West Huron Street -- was pronounced dead, according to a spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner's office. The other man was in stable condition at the hospital, Polick said.

Harrison Area detectives are investigating.

In Chicago's West Rogers Park neighborhood, an Evanston man was found shot early Sunday in an alley and later died, police said.

The man, identified by the Cook County medical examiner's office as Kendre Briscoe, 29, was found shot in the chest in the 2300 block of West Jarvis Avenue at about 1:10 a.m., Henry said.

Advertisement

Briscoe, of the 1400 block of Pitner Avenue, was taken to St. Francis Hospital in Evanston, where he was pronounced dead at 7:47 a.m., according to a medical examiner's spokesman.

Belmont Area detectives are trying to determine whether Briscoe was shot in the alley or was brought there after he was shot, Henry said.

Elsewhere, a man was fatally shot early Sunday in the Humboldt Park neighborhood.

The shooting occurred about 3:30 a.m. in the street on the 600 block of North Troy Street, Henry said.

The victim "was standing outside near that location and an unknown offender came from a nearby gangway and fired shots on him," he said.

The man, identified as Caldwell Crawford, 26, was taken to Mt. Sinai Hospital in Chicago, where he was pronounced dead at about 4:15 a.m., according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. Crawford lived a few doors away from where he was gunned down.

Advertisement

----------

alwang@tribune.com

mowen@tribune.com