20th Air Force gets change of command

CHEYENNE - Maj. Gen. Roger Burg has taken over as commander of the 20th Air Force in Air Force Space Command.

Maj. Gen. Thomas Deppe turned his duties over to Burg during a ceremony at F.E. Warren Air Force Base on Friday.

Before taking command of the 20th Air Force, Burg served on the Air Staff as the director of the operations directorate office for space at the Pentagon.

The 20th Air Force maintains and operates land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles based out of Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota.

Burg previously served F.E. Warren from 1994 to 1997 as commander of the 90th Operations Group and from 1999 to 2001 as commander of the 90th Space Wing.

Burg said he was honored with his new assignment. He said he looked forward to continuing the legacy Deppe left.

Woman pleads not guilty in death of newborn

CHEYENNE - A lay midwife has pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter and practicing without a license stemming from the death of a baby girl.

If found guilty on both charges, Susan M. Merrill, 53, could face up to 21 years in prison.

Merrill, who entered her plea Friday, is free on her own recognizance while she awaits trial in early October.

Merrill has delivered about 400 babies in her 24-year career as a lay midwife, according to court papers in the case.

In April of last year, Merrill allowed a mother to have a ruptured membrane for nearly 33 hours prior to her baby's delivery, an affidavit states.

The baby died after Merrill never recommended medical care following the baby's birth, it said.

Under state law, only certified nurse-midwives with proper training can practice midwifery. Lay persons are banned from the practice. Merrill did not have certification in Wyoming, according to prosecutors.

Laramie County deputy cleared in fatal shooting

CHEYENNE - Laramie County sheriff's deputies were justified in using deadly force in the shooting death of a man last month, District Attorney Scott Homar said.

"After careful review of the facts and circumstances, I've come to the conclusion that these deputies were not only justified in using deadly force, they had no alternative," Homar said Friday.

David McDaniel was shot to death on July 14 after Laramie County Sheriff's deputies responded to a domestic disturbance call.

According to a report prepared by state investigators, McDaniel had armed himself with a shotgun in his mobile home. Despite repeated orders from deputies to drop the firearm, McDaniel took a shotgun stance and turned the weapon toward deputies, the report said.

McDaniel was fatally shot by Deputy Mike Rivers, authorities said.

Rivers was put on paid administrative leave after the incident but was scheduled to be back on duty Saturday.

"This tragic incident is yet another example of how a domestic disturbance call can quickly turn into a life-threatening event for our peace officers," Homar said.