A West Side woman who opened fire on three officers before they fatally shot her had a history of violence, police said Monday.

Court records show the woman, Dorothy Williams-Johnson, 50, had several run-ins with police and was found not guilty by reason of insanity in a 2003 attack. She had been held in a state mental facility until last year, records show.

Advertisement

Police and firefighters arrived at Williams-Johnson's residence in the 5000 block of West Adams Street Sunday night after receiving a 911 call reporting shots had been fired and that a woman was waving a 12-gauge shotgun out a window.

Another caller reported that Williams-Johnson had been beating a woman in her apartment with the shotgun, said Chicago Police Deputy Chief of Detectives Michael Chasen.

Advertisement

When four police officers approached the door to Williams-Johnson's second-floor apartment, "they heard the very recognizable sound of a round being loaded," Chasen said.

The officers entered the apartment and Williams-Johnson allegedly shot at them. The officers returned fire, killing her, Chasen said.

Police declined to say who owned the shotgun.

An autopsy performed Monday determined that Williams-Johnson died of multiple gunshot wounds. Three of the four officers suffered buckshot wounds to their arms or heads. All three were taken to Mt. Sinai Hospital and had been released by Monday afternoon. Chasen said.

An internal review of the officers' actions determined that they "acted within department guidelines in discharging their service weapons," said police spokeswoman Monique Bond.

Bond said Sunday's altercation began when relatives of Williams-Johnson's landlord came to collect the rent and Williams-Johnson refused to pay them. The apartment was held in the landlord's name, Bond said.

Police declined to say how the two women knew each other or how long Williams-Johnson had lived in the apartment.

Several of Williams-Johnson's neighbors said they only knew her by sight.

Advertisement

"I didn't even know the lady -- it was scary," said Peggy Dewalt who lives in the unit below Williams-Johnson with her granddaughter.

Her granddaughter, Kenya Miller, said she heard a "loud boom" Sunday night and took cover with her 2-week-old son. Shots came through the ceiling into her apartment, she said.

Detectives have spoken to Williams-Johnson's relatives, Bond said. Although she declined to go into detail, she said that the conversations have led detectives to believe that Williams-Johnson's mental state may have been a factor in the incident.

"There was an indication of mental instability," Bond said.

Between 1991 and 2003, Williams-Johnson was arrested 13 times on charges including aggravated battery with a firearm, aggravated battery, criminal trespass, theft and disorderly conduct. She was not convicted, Bond said.

From 2004 to 2006, Williams-Johnson was confined in an undisclosed state mental institution after she was found not guilty by reason of insanity in the March 2003 assault of a West Side woman, Cook County court records show.

Advertisement

An indictment alleged that Williams-Johnson stabbed the woman with a broken bottle of hot sauce, then poured the hot sauce into her wounds and eyes.

Records also show that when she was released last year, Williams-Johnson was placed under the supervision of the Illinois Department of Human Services. She had no arrests after her release, police said.

A spokesman for the Human Services Department declined to discuss details of Williams-Johnson's case.

But Mark Heyrman, a clinical professor of law at the University of Chicago, said Illinois code calls for a thorough review before and after the release of a mentally ill patient ordered into institutionalized care by the court. Several steps must be approved by the judge overseeing the criminal case, said Heyman, who specializes in mental-health law.

Heyrman said he was reluctant to discuss specifics about the case without details.

But he said that when patients with a violent past are released from a mental-health facility, they almost always are assigned special conditions requiring regular supervision by residential medical personnel.

Advertisement

"The system has worked very well. The number [of patients] who have had problems is very small. If something goes wrong, we react," Heyrman said.

"We take care of them before they hurt themselves or someone else. Usually, they have had their conditional release revoked before there is another incident.

"The question is, where was she getting treatment and what happened?"

-----------

heckinger@tribune.com

jmeisner@tribune.com