Oregon in brief Residents work for assisted living facility CORVALLIS - A group of local residents say they've acquired more than 70 percent of the funds needed to build a

$4.2 million assisted living center.

No groundbreaking date has been set for the Corvallis Caring Place, but the project's backers hope to have it up and running by this fall.

A Portland company called Concepts in Community Living will manage the nonprofit facility under the supervision of a 10-member board of directors, said lawyer Rich Rodeman, board president of Corvallis Caring Place Inc.

Snowboarder in critical condition

MEDFORD - An 18-year-old snowboarder remains in critical condition after being injured in an accident on Mount Ashland.

Jordan Koeninger was hurt when he landed on his back Sunday while trying to perform an aerial maneuver at a makeshift jump near Ski Ashland's parking lot.

He was airlifted to Rogue Valley Medical Center, where he remains in critical condition in the hospital's intensive care unit.

Jeff Hanson, general manager of Ski Ashland, said Koeninger was snowboarding outside the boundary of the ski area, just south of the parking lot.

"We think he hit a rock," Hanson said, noting that only about 33 percent of the ski area is open for business because of low snow levels.

Man shot by Portland police identified

PORTLAND - The man shot to death by a police officer during a confrontation was identified Tuesday, but investigators are still searching for another man who fled the scene.

An autopsy found that Michael Ray Jaquith, 34, died Monday from a single gunshot wound to the upper body. The officer who fired the shot, James Lawrence, 36, is on paid leave during the investigation.

Police said an officer stopped to talk to two men in Northeast Portland on Monday afternoon. The men reportedly tried to run over the officer, who fired one shot into their van.

One of the men fled. Officers surrounded the vehicle and found Jaquith dead.

Police described the passenger who ran from the scene as 5-foot-8, with long, dark hair and a bushy mustache. They said he was between 25- and 30-years-old.

State Board increases state school tuition

SALEM - Summer school may soon cost just as much as the rest of the year.

The Oregon State Board of Higher Education recently approved a summer session tuition hike at state universities.

Except for Eastern Oregon University, all schools will raise rates to cover greater operating costs.

Resident tuition for 12 undergraduate credit hours will range from $982 at the Oregon Institute of Technology to $1,149 at Oregon State University.

Graduate costs for nine credit hours will range from $1,287 at Eastern Oregon University to $1,484 at Western Oregon University.

-Associated Press

Visit our back issue library

Visit our other Oregon Newspapers…

| Corvallis Gazette-Times

| Mid-Valley Sunday

| Lebanon Express

| Newport News-Times |

Email your…

Technical questions & comments to:

WebMaster

Democrat-Herald editorial comments & questions to: Managing editor

Albany Democrat-Herald600 Lyon St. SW Albany, OR 97321 Telephone 541-926-2211© Copyright 2000Lee Northwest Publishing