Bradley Behrens (18) was shot and killed by a police deputy after stealing a car



Bradley Behrens (18) Date: Jul 16, 2007

Cause of Death: Shot

Location: Omak, WA

URL: view their profile Jul 16, 2007ShotOmak, WA

Two vehicles, both allegedly stolen, were involved in a July 16 accident near Omak that preceded a confrontation in which an Okanogan County sheriff's deputy shot and killed an Okanogan teen-ager.



Bradley Lee Behrens, 18, died in Omak after being shot by deputy Tony Hawley.



Investigation of the incident has been turned over to the Chelan County Sheriff's Office. Hawley has been placed on administrative leave.



Okanogan County sheriff Frank Rogers said initial investigation indicated Behrens and four others were in a stolen vehicle that crashed on Robinson Canyon Road early July 16. Further investigation indicated the group of teens also was involved in a carjacking earlier in the morning, he said.



Martin A. Aguilar and Justin A. Lambert, both 18 and of Okanogan, and a boy and girl, both 16, were arrested July 16 in connection with the alleged vehicle thefts, said Rogers.



"At this time the investigation shows that there were actually two stolen vehicles involved in the collision on Robinson Canyon" Road, said Rogers.



He said it appears that earlier in the night a vehicle was stolen from a residence in Okanogan. While driving around in the stolen vehicle, the five suspects allegedly came across a man who was sleeping in his vehicle near Okanogan just off Highway 97.



The suspects allegedly stopped and confronted the owner of the vehicle sometime after 4 a.m. He told investigators that one of the suspects had a gun and the others pulled him out of the vehicle, assaulted him and took his money and vehicle.



Rogers said the suspects then allegedly drove away in the two vehicles.



"The suspects apparently were racing up Robinson Canyon Road ramming each other's cars," said Rogers. One apparently struck the other, causing it to spin out and wreck, rolling as it left the roadway, he said.



Investigators allege the five came up with a story to tell law enforcement and then Behrens took the second car and drove it up to the flats above Omak and he wrecked it. Behrens apparently headed back into Omak, where he was located by officers, Rogers said.



Rogers said Behrens was chased on foot by a deputy who deployed a Taser in an attempt to stop the man. The Taser didn't stop Behrens, who allegedly drew a pistol from his belt and then ran with the firearm.



He was confronted by officers and ordered several times to drop the weapon, Rogers said. He allegedly pointed the fire arm at the officers and Hawley fired, striking Behrens.



Aguilar and Lambert were booked into the Okanogan County jail July 16 on suspicion of first-degree robbery, two counts of second-degree theft, resisting arrest and reckless driving.



The two juveniles were not booked. Reports will be forwarded to juvenile authorities and the prosecutor's office, Rogers said.



Chelan County detectives are still working on the investigation of the shooting, he said. An autopsy has been ordered for Behrens.



The vehicle that was carjacked was located late Monday afternoon on Woods Road by Okanogan County deputies. The vehicle has been impounded.

Related Article(s): Two vehicles involved in accident that preceded shooting

« go back to article archive list