Used to be, Kathy Davis’ children would look out their window at the young men across the street defying gravity.

Aaron Richard Snyder and his brother buzzed through the neighborhood on their bicycles, jumping ramps, popping wheelies and bouncing on their rear wheels.

“Wow, look at that,” Davis’ kids would say.

But a few years later, Kathy Davis would look out her window in Thornton and see a different Aaron Snyder, older now, standing alone on the sidewalk, smoking a cigarette and gazing into space.

“He would just stare intently and smoke those cigarettes,” said Davis, a speech pathologist who now lives in Brighton.

“Something happened to that boy when he went away,” she added. “His facial expressions were flat, and he limped and he smoked nonstop.”

Then came Monday, when Snyder, 32, walked into the state Capitol carrying a loaded revolver and proclaiming himself the emperor.

The journey of Aaron Snyder from there to here has those who knew him and those who thought they did spinning. He was the good son, taking out the garbage and walking the dogs. He was the brilliant engineer, grasping concepts quickly and reaching out to professors.

But he was also the disturbed man who rented a tuxedo Monday with a handgun in his pocket and a plan.

“His parents are brokenhearted about this,” said a woman Tuesday who identified herself as the mother-in-law of Snyder’s brother, Michael.

Snyder’s parents, Richard and Kathie, weren’t at their Thornton home Tuesday as police searched it for evidence, according to detectives who left the house with boxes and bags after spending about one hour there.

Clean-cut, kind and happy

Neighbors, professors and former classmates remember Snyder as clean-cut, kind, happy.

Mary Annunziato, a next-door neighbor, excused herself to get a tissue and wipe away a tear before talking to a reporter.

“I would see him out mowing the lawn, taking the trash out,” she said. “He always had a smile for me.”

Snyder attended schools in the Adams 12 Five Star district since elementary school, said Janelle Albertson, a district spokeswoman. At Horizon High School, he was one of seven valedictorians and one of the best tennis players in school, former classmates recall. He worked behind the scenes on three different school plays and took online courses at Front Range Community College, school officials said Tuesday.

“He was a very thoughtful and a really gentle person,” said Horizon classmate Matthew Hoge, who shared valedictorian honors. “A real quality human being.”

“When you spoke to him, his vocabulary was very good,” said Jerry Snyder, another valedictorian classmate who is not related to Aaron. “He was just very intellectual on everything.”

After high school, Aaron Snyder attended Colorado State University, but his enrollment was erratic. Jerry Snyder said he last talked to Aaron in 1993 or 1994, when Aaron told him he had dropped out of school to find himself and explore his religion.

“He said he just really needed to think about some things,” Jerry Snyder said.

Eventually, in the fall of 2005, Aaron Snyder earned a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from CSU, said university spokeswoman Dell Rae Moellenberg. He then enrolled in a master’s program.

“He seemed like a nice guy, and the only interaction we had was in the context of him being in my class,” said Edwin Chong, a CSU electrical and computer engineering professor who taught Snyder in a class last year. “He’d ask questions about the class material, and he would come to my office about the material.”

Memories of a normal guy

It was when he moved back home that Kathy Davis said Snyder had changed. But other neighbors remember a normal guy.

Annunziato said Snyder dressed casually, and she can’t remember him wearing a shirt and tie. Though Snyder didn’t have a girlfriend, neighbors remember young people, both men and women, frequently visiting the family’s house.

Doug Egge, who lives next door, said the Snyders are quiet, neat and religious. He said that when Aaron Snyder was talking to his father, the son would sometimes say things such as “Praise the Lord” and “Thank God.”

When Aaron Snyder was taking a computer course, he sometimes asked Egge, a Harley-riding software consultant, for help.

“I would show him something I have been doing for 20 years, and he would pick it right up,” Egge said.

Snyder earned a summer internship at Advanced Energy Industries in Fort Collins, which he left Monday morning after sending out an e-mail asking co-workers to hold a desk for the emperor.

Hidden problems

There were hidden problems, though.

After a spooked clerk at the tuxedo store called police on Monday, Kathie Snyder told officers her son had been diagnosed as being delusional, according to a police report. He was seeing a doctor in Littleton, she said.

A couple of days earlier, Kathie Snyder said, Aaron got upset with his parents over an issue so minor that she couldn’t even remember what it was.

Still, Kathie Snyder told police she didn’t know of his plans to go to Denver on Monday and didn’t know he had a gun. Indeed, for many who knew Aaron Snyder, the image of how he died may simply never square with their memory of how he lived.

“I was shocked to hear that this was where his life wound up,” classmate Hoge said. “I am sorry it did end that way. But when I knew him as a kid, he was very kind and a good soul.”

Staff writer John Ingold can be reached at 720-929-0898 or jingold@denverpost.com.

Key dates in Snyder’s life

Sept. 20, 1974: Aaron Snyder was born.

1984-86: He attended Cherry Drive Elementary School.

1986-89: Northeast Middle School

Fall of 1991: He took online courses at Front Range Community College but did not graduate.

Spring of 1992: Valedictorian at Horizon High School

Fall of 1992 to fall of 2005: Earning bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering at Colorado State University in Fort Collins.

Spring of 2007: Begins internship in research and development at Advanced Energy Industries in Fort Collins.