By Jannise JohnsonInland Valley Daily BulletinONTARIO, Calif. - An Ontario police officer shot and killed a 20-year-old man Saturday morning after responding to a call about a suicidal person.Earlier Saturday, Family of Esteban Trinidad told Ontario police dispatchers that he had been drinking and using drugs. He also had an 8-inch butcher knife and was trying to cut himself in the stomach, according to a police news release.Two officers arrived, knocked on the door and were greeted by Trinidad, who was holding an object behind his back. The officers could not see Trinidad's hands, police Lt. John Evans said.The officers began to retreat and ordered Trinidad, in English and Spanish, to drop the weapon and stop coming toward them, according to the news release.Trinidad, who had cut himself several times and was bleeding from his stomach, ignored the officers' commands to stop and drop the weapon.One of the officers fired his handgun three times after retreating for a second time. Trinidad was struck in the upper body.He was taken to Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in Colton, where he died.Evans said the officers did not immediately know what type of weapon Trinidad was carrying until he was very close to them, making it more difficult for police to use a non-lethal weapon."The distance became unsafe and they were not able to use non-lethal weapons," Evans said.The shooting "had to do more with the non-compliance and the distance he was able to close."Police had arrested Trinidad about six times in the past for alcohol- and drug-related incidents, Evans said.Evans was not aware if Trinidad was suffering from mental-health problems at the time of the shooting.The male officer who shot Trinidad has been with the Police Department for 12 1/ 2 years, according to the news release. He holds the rank of corporal and is assigned to patrol.The Ontario police detectives and the Administrative Investigative Team will investigate the shooting before they forward a report to the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office.The District Attorney's Office will review the case and decide whether or not to file criminal charges against the officer.Police have not released the officer's name.At 12:40 a.m. Saturday, a Pomona police officer's gun went off during a struggle with a 28-year-old man. No one was injured, according to a Pomona police news release.The male officer attempted to pull Albert Manuel Arellanes, 28, of Montclair over after he saw him driving erratically near Kingsley and San Antonio avenues, police said.Arellanes, who was driving a 4-door, 1999 Honda, reportedly sped up and made a series of fast turns.As the officer got closer, the Honda crashed into a curb in the area of San Antonio and Lincoln avenues, according to the news release.Arellanes then ran off, and the officer chased him into a backyard. There, Arellanes began to fight with the officer, police Lt. Mark Warm said.During the fight, Arellanes grabbed the officer's gun and it fired. Neither person was struck, according to the news release.Arellanes ran off and hid as the officer retrieved his gun.Pomona, La Verne and Claremont police officers responded and searched for Arellanes with the help of a police dog and a Los Angeles County sheriff's helicopter.Arellanes was arrested after he left his hiding place and attempted to steal a car in the area, according to the news release.Police said Arellanes is a Montclair gang member who is on parole.He was booked into Pomona City Jail on suspicion of attempted murder. He was being held without bail.He is due in court Tuesday, according to the news release.Pomona police detectives are investigating the incident. When completed, a report will be forwarded to the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office for review.Wire Services