The WAFF 48 Investigators are digging deeper into the fatal chase that killed 2 teens and injured another man.

The chase ended with a head-on collision on Highway 35 in Rainsville in DeKalb County on Monday night.

Police say the girls were driving on the wrong side of the road.

The actual chase involved at least 7 law enforcement agencies spanning 2 states and 3 counties.

16-year-old Teri Stanford and the 17-year-old driver, Natasha Carter Wilson, were killed in the wreck.

57-year-old Jim Radford was also seriously injured.

What started it? The two runaway foster children allegedly stole a Jeep in Tennessee on Monday. They were spotted in South Pittsburg, then took off.

The chase entered Alabama. Stevenson police joined in, but stopped at their city limits.

South Pittsburg was still in hot pursuit. The chief says they finally dropped out in Scottsboro, when Scottsboro Police and the Jackson County Sheriff's Office took over.

Scottsboro Police stopped at their city limits.

They picked up another police car in Section.

The chase crossed over into DeKalb County. Powell Police also joined in. it's unknown where they stopped.

From there, the chase entered Rainsville and their force joined in.

At times speeds were in excess of 100 miles an hour.

Eddie Johnson witnessed the last few seconds before the crash.

"The first thing I seen was blue lights, lots of blue lights," said Johnson.

Then he saw the girls.

"You could tell she was up on the steering wheel. She was, they wasn't laid back, she was up in the windshield driving. After I met the red Jeep, I say the wreck happened within 7 seconds," said Johnson.

Johnson says he was close enough to hear the impact.

"Just like a big boom. Sounded like a shot gun going off," Johnson said.

It happened so fast, Johnson says he couldn't see who was leading the chase or who all was involved.

None of the agencies there at the time of the crash would do an on-camera interview and none said they were the lead agency, just assisting.

Alabama State Troopers were not involved with the chase, but are handling the investigation.

They say they can't release any details of the accident because it's still under investigation and could be for another 30 to 45 days.