A Suffolk police officer pursuing a wheelie-popping motorcyclist through a red light in Mount Sinai crashed into a car, killing its driver.

The victim, Gabriel Bergianti, 27, was an Army National Guardsman who was to be deployed to Afghanistan in January, relatives said.

Advertisement

"He enjoyed life, most definitely, and he didn't take it for granted because his parents died when we were around the age of 17," Mariau Amoruso, 27, said of her cousin.

Bergianti, who also lost one of his older brothers when he was in the sixth grade, was driving his newly purchased 1993 Ford Mustang on Hallock Ave. when he traveled through a green light at the intersection of Route 347 and was broadsided by the marked police cruiser.

Advertisement

"I am deeply saddened and concerned by the tragic motor vehicle crash last night," Suffolk Police Commissioner Richard Dormer said in a statement yesterday. "I would like to extend our deepest sympathy to the Bergianti family. My prayers and thoughts are also with the family of the officer, who was also injured, but fortunately not seriously."

Police said 6th Precinct Officer Robert Falisi, 35, was responding to a 911 call from a motorist who spotted 15 motorcycles speeding west on Route 25A in Miller Place.

As Falisi headed east on 347 in Mount Sinai, he spotted four "ninja" style motorcycles traveling in the opposite direction, said Suffolk Chief of Detectives Dominick Varrone.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

"He notices the lead motorcycle was engaged in performing an extended wheelie for a pretty good distance," Varrone said, adding that the officer activated his emergency lights and siren before doing a U-turn and pursuing the lead motorcyclist, whose three fellow riders pulled over to the side of the road.

"It appears that the motorcycle ran through a red light, and the police vehicle also went through a red light," Varrone said.

Though there were several cars stopped on Hallock at the traffic light, Bergianti had been moving as he approached the green light and continued through the intersection, Varrone said.

Police have not tracked down any of the motorcyclists, who left the area.

"He's very shaken and saddened by this tragic crash," Varrone said of Falisi, who he called a "mature" cop despite only having two years on the force.

Advertisement

"How does this happen?" asked Amoruso, a nurse in Manhattan. "It's just a freak accident."

rweir@nydailynews.com