Officer cleared in fatal shooting



01:00 AM EDT on Thursday, October 18, 2007





By John Castellucci





PROVIDENCE - The Pawtucket police officer who shot and killed a woman trying to run him down in a stolen SUV was justified in his use of deadly force, a state grand jury has determined.



Derek Smith believed his life was in danger when he fired the shot that killed Bridget DeGraftt, the grand jury found.



As a result, no indictment was returned in the case, a spokesman for the attorney general's office said late yesterday.



Michael J. Healey said the grand jury found that Smith's belief that his life was in danger was reasonable, and that laid the basis for the determination that the shooting didn't violate the law.



The shooting took place shortly before 1 a.m. on July 26, after DeGraftt, a 49-year-old woman with a history of alcohol and drug abuse, hijacked the SUV at knifepoint from two teenagers near her home in Attleboro and led Pawtucket and state police on a chase down Route 95.



The hijacked vehicle was stopped twice - the first time on Route 10 in Cranston, the second time at the Jefferson Boulevard exit off Route 95 in Warwick. At both stops, DeGrafft tried to run police down, according to the police account of the incident. On both occasions, Smith opened fire. At the first stop, State Trooper Douglas Watters also discharged his gun.



The fatal shot was fired when DeGraftt was stopped at the Jefferson Boulevard exit, and Smith and two other officers used their cruisers to box in the SUV.



State police Maj. Steven O'Donnell said after the incident that Smith opened fire when DeGrafft violently jerked the SUV back and forth, pinning him between the car and his police cruiser.



Smith's legs were injured, and he had to use crutches after the assault.



The incident was followed a day later by another shooting, this one involving three other Pawtucket police officers. In that shooting, Officers Christopher LeFort, Mark Ramos and David Holden, opened fire on Jason Audette, a 34-year-old burglary suspect who, they said, refused to drop his gun.



Healey said that that second fatal shooting will be investigated by another grand jury. As is customary in such cases, he said, the grand jury investigation will be the third and final step in the procedure used to determine whether an officer involved in a fatal shooting was justified in the use of deadly force.



The first step, Healey said, is a joint investigation by state police and local detectives. The second step is a review of the evidence by the attorney general. The third step, the grand jury presentation, gives private citizens the opportunity to review the case.



Healey said the goal of the three-step procedure is to reassure the public.



"Certainly, when something like this happens, the public has a right to know whether the officer's actions were justified," he said.



Smith, a Pawtucket police officer since 2003, was placed on administrative duty after the shooting, as were LeFort, Ramos and Holden.



Attempts to learn the status of the four officers weren't successful. The city director of administration, Harvey E. Goulet Jr., said he didn't know whether Smith was back on active duty. A call to Police Chief George L. Kelley III yesterday wasn't returned.