The suspect in Tuesday night’s fatal crash has a history of trouble on the road.

A little more than a year ago, he was convicted in a serious crash in Denver that left one of his passengers injured. A judge sentenced him to almost a year in jail for careless driving in the crash.

A little before 8 p.m. Tuesday, just months after his release, Aurora police believe Antwan Gatlin, 26, of Denver caused yet another serious crash after speeding away from a traffic stop, running a red light and crashing into a minivan.

This time, however, the victim died.

“He made an extremely poor decision that took the life of an individual,” said Aurora police spokesman Detective Bob Friel.

Investigators are seeking a host of charges against Gatlin, including vehicular homicide and eluding police.

The victim was identified Wednesday by the Arapahoe County coroner’s office as Brian Gleason, 49, of Thornton.

Neighbors said Gleason was a married father of two. He lived along a cul-de-sac in a brown, two-story house. Nobody answered the door at the house Wednesday afternoon, but a white minivan almost identical to the one he was driving when he was killed was parked in the driveway.

Susan Gleason, the victim’s wife, said through the Aurora Police Department that she would be talking to the media later this week.

“I knew him just as a really kind person,” said Gleason’s neighbor, Judith Salcedo. “I’m shocked. I feel so terrible.”

The trouble began Tuesday when Gatlin’s girlfriend called police, saying Gatlin was in her parking lot and had a gun in his car, Friel said.

Officers drove to the apartment, at 15500 E. 12th Ave., where they saw him pulling out of the parking lot, north onto Chambers Road, in a silver Dodge Intrepid, Friel said.

Officers pulled Gatlin over just north of East Colfax Avenue at 7:50 p.m. and began talking to him.

That’s when, Friel said, Gatlin took off.

He drove north on Chambers, weaving through traffic. At least one officer chased him for a few blocks, but when the officer came up over a hill, he “saw the erratic driving and discontinued the chase,” Friel said.

Judging from recordings from police dispatch, officers officially called off the chase about a minute after it began, Friel said.

Ten seconds later, Gatlin, going more than 60 mph, drove through a red light at East Smith Road and T-boned the white minivan, Friel said.

Gatlin was seriously injured in the crash and was taken to a local hospital, where he was being guarded by two armed officers Wednesday.

Gatlin has a long criminal history, including the April 2006 conviction in Denver District Court for careless driving causing an injury, according to records from the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.

His arrests include drinking and driving and drug possession. He was sentenced to prison for four years in 2001 on drug and burglary convictions, according to CBI records.

Reached by phone Wednesday, Gatlin’s father, Howard Gatlin Jr.of Denver, said his son has been in trouble with the law on and off for many years.

“This violent thing he has in him, I don’t know where that comes from,” Howard Gatlin said. “There is a lot of anger built up in him, but I don’t understand why.”

Friel said investigators found marijuana and a gun in Gatlin’s car. He also had an arrest warrant out on him for domestic violence.

“I was shocked to hear this myself,” Howard Gatlin said. “I wish it was a dream.”

Staff writer Nick Martin can be reached at 303-954-1698 or nmartin@denverpost.com.