EUREKA — While concrete answers seem to be elusive following the Aug. 9, in-custody death of Martin Cotton II, at least one policy change has stemmed from the incident.

Eureka Police Chief Garr Nielsen recently implemented a change in the department’s guidelines on when a suspect should be seen by medical personnel prior to being booked into jail or released.

”We were on our way to revising the policy anyway, but obviously this heightened the need to get it done sooner,” Nielsen said. “It became clear to me, pretty graphically, that this was something we needed to do.”

The policy, which calls on officers to call for medical assistance if the suspect has any visible injuries, has complained of pain or exhibits any warning signs of possible overdose, is aimed at taking judgment calls out of officers’ hands and putting them into those of qualified medical professionals, Nielsen said.

Cotton died in a hospital just hours after being booked into the Humboldt County Jail, after numerous altercations in front of the Eureka Rescue Mission, including one with Eureka police officers. Nielsen has said that Cotton was noncompliant and very resistive, and officers justifiably had to use force to subdue him before taking him into custody. Some have said that officers used excessive force.

”They were just waling on him,” said Mike Flowers, a graduate of the mission’s New Life Program, who arrived at the mission that day to find two police officers already engaged in a struggle with Cotton. “They were beating him up pretty good.”

Flowers’ wife, Shannon, arrived on the scene with her husband and said the use of force was excessive. She said the third officer on the scene, who nearly knocked her down in his rush to reach Cotton, immediately kicked Cotton five times to the kidney area of the back.

”I thought it was just brutal,” she said. “When I heard he died the next day, I cried.”

Shannon Flowers also said she attempted to videotape the incident on her cell phone, but was told by one officer: “Close it and put it in your pocket or I’ll take it.”

There have been numerous reports of witnesses scared to come forward because of fears of retaliation. Last week, Nielsen said that bothers him, and the department has systems in place to take complaints anonymously.

”It’s somewhat concerning to me that there’s this story, at least among a certain faction, that witnesses are scared to come forward,” he said. “I don’t know of any cases where a witness has been retaliated against for coming forward, and it will certainly never happen on my watch.”

A toxicology report on Cotton showed high levels of LSD in his system, but the official cause of death isn’t expected to be released until later this week.

Amid the rumors and speculation surrounding the incident, many have criticized EPD officers for not having Cotton medically evaluated before taking him to the jail. Nielsen said his department relied heavily on medical screenings done by the jail before suspects are admitted to the facility.

”I think that we’ve come to rely on them quite a bit,” he said. “My experience has been that, certainly in Oregon, having worked in a sheriff’s office, that the jails are very careful about the liability of letting someone in that has been injured.”

Whether Cotton was medically screened before being booked into the Humboldt County Jail is unclear.

Sheriff Gary Philp said he couldn’t comment on the specific case because of the ongoing investigation. But in an interview last week, Humboldt County Sheriff’s Public Information Officer Brenda Godsey said Cotton was partially screened, but was uncooperative and would not answer questions, which prevented a full screening. Nielsen said he was unsure.

”I don’t believe that he was,” Nielsen said Monday. “I have not received any indication from any of my officers that he was screened. What I’ve heard is that he was too combative and couldn’t be screened.”

Speaking generally about the jail’s screening policy Tuesday, Philp said the medical screening involves the observations of trained officers and the inmate answering a series of questions, but the whole process depends on the inmate’s willingness to cooperate. He said everyone is screened that comes into the jail.

”It depends on the person’s cooperative nature,” Philp said. “It’s not just a certain this, this and this, it’s an overall visual check to see if there are any areas that give us concern. If there is a reason for obvious concern, medical staff that we have could look at them, or we could not accept them.”

If an inmate is not accepted, Philp said, it is up to the arresting party to take them to a hospital for a medical evaluation, something which happens periodically.

City Ambulance Inc.’s director of operations, Jaison Chand, said EPD’s new policy won’t have much of an impact on what services the company provides, and he isn’t worried about his employees coming into contact with suspects.

”The Eureka Police Department has always been good about ensuring the safety of EMTs and paramedics,” Chand said, adding that if a suspect is especially uncooperative, they have gurneys equipped with restraints.

Chand added that sometimes officers can also accompany a suspect, sometimes in handcuffs, in the ambulance to the hospital, where the staff is better equipped to deal with a combative patient.

He also made clear that the role of his EMTs and paramedics isn’t to diagnose ailments, but to determine whether the patient needs further medical attention. Overall, Chand said he understands the need for the policy.

”I can see where the police need that level of protection, for the same reason we transport these patients for further treatment from physicians with diagnostic tools — it’s better to be safe,” he said.

Whether a trip to the hospital could have saved Cotton’s life can’t be answered, but the EPD is making changes in wake of the incident. Nielsen also said that he has ordered a new batch of Tasers for the department, and hopes to have every officer on force carrying one by the end of the year.

Of the six to eight officers on the scene Aug. 9, none had a Taser.

”As tragic as the incident was, we learned something from it,” Nielsen said.

For his part, Philp said the sheriff’s office will look at the incident with Cotton carefully, as it does with all incidents, but he doesn’t anticipate any changes.

”From our standpoint, I don’t think there is a need for policy change,” he said. “I think our policies are adequate.”

While it is the EPD that has been the primary focus of recent newspaper articles, protests and public criticism, Nielsen said Monday that there were other jurisdictions involved in the incident.

”The entire incident with Mr. Cotton played out over several venues, and EPD’s role in that was only one segment,” he said. “Thus far, it seems like the focus has been on EPD and how we handled our piece of it, but our involvement ended once he was inside the confines of the jail. He was very combative and still very much alive at the time that we booked him into the jail.”

Thadeus Greenson can be reached at 441-0509 or tgreenson@times-standard.com