SNc Channels:



Search

About Salem-News.com



Sep-14-2007 18:18 TweetFollow @OregonNews Salem Police Officer Involved in Fatal August Shooting‏ Cleared by Grand Jury The police officer says the man attacked him as he tried to handcuff him, and htat the fatal bullets were fired after two taser shots.

Salem-News.com

(SALEM, Ore.) - A Marion County Grand Jury found today that the police officer shooting of Cesar Alejandro Gonzalez-Meza was a lawful use of deadly force. Deputy District Attorney Don Abar presented the case for the Marion County District Attorney's Office. Salem Police Officer John Humphreys shot Gonzalez-Meza twice at close range in the upper left chest area on August 13th of this year. Mr. Gonzalez-Meza died at the scene. Courtland Geyer with the Marion County DA's Office says Corporal Humphreys was one of many officers looking for Mr. Gonzalez-Meza and two other Hispanic males who had run from the vehicle. "Corporal Humphreys was flagged down by a citizen on 45th Ct. NE and was told that Gonzalez-Meza had just run through a back yard and into another yard. Corporal Humphreys then went over a fence and into the backyard that was pointed out to him. As Corporal Humphreys arrived at the side of the house with his taser drawn, he saw Gonzalez-Meza crouched down in some bushes." Geyer says the Officer gave several commands to Mr. Gonzalez-Meza that were not obeyed. He then reportedly advanced on the Officer and the Officer tased him. He says Mr. Gonzalez-Meza, "still refused to comply with commands and he was tased a second time. Gonzalez-Meza then told the Officer that he would comply. The Officer put down his taser and started to handcuff Gonzalez-Meza." He says Humphreys was briefly distracted by occupants in the house at a sliding glass door, and that is when the suspect obtained the officer's taser. "Gonzalez-Meza began to punch it into Officer Humphreys, 'drive stunning' him. Gonzalez-Meza was also grabbing at the Officer's shirt and gun belt. At that time, the Officer managed to pull his service weapon and shoot Gonzalez-Meza twice at very close range." Toxicology reports indicated that Cesar Gonzalez-Meza had both alcohol and methamphetamine in his system. An alleged witness named Mark Farmer, had previously told a TV news channel that he witnessed the Officer shoot the suspect in the back. Although there were literally dozens of police around the area after the investigation began and while Mr. Farmer was in the area, Mr. Farmer chose not to contact the police. The Oregon State Police have continually attempted to locate Farmer for an interview but he has not made himself available. A federal warrant now exists for Farmer's arrest on a parole violation. Geyer says the autopsy result confirm that Gonzalez-Meza was not shot in the back.

Oregon | Salem | Most Commented on





Articles for September 13, 2007 | Articles for September 14, 2007 | Articles for September 15, 2007