A St. Louis man is dead following an encounter with police Friday afternoon in Maryville.

David E. Corbett, 36, of the 7500 block of Marillac Drive in St. Louis, was shot and killed by a Maryville police officer following a domestic dispute at the home of his ex-wife located on Augusta Court in the Pinehurst subdivision of Maryville.

Police are not releasing the name of the officer at the scene.

Corbett had allegedly attacked the victim with a knife before she fled, neighbor Ginger Sitzes said.

"Our neighbor came out, running for her life," Sitzes said. "She came in to our home and asked my husband to call 911 and he did that and shortly thereafter I came into our subdivision."

Sitzes said that a police car arrived right after she pulled in. The officer then began interviewing the victim when Corbitt exited the victim's home and began firing a gun. Sitzes said she, her children, her husband, Roger, and the victim ran into their home.

"We really no sooner got in front of the garage than shots had started to ring out," she said.

The Sitzes' ran into their kitchen and began to pray as the officer exchanged gunfire with the suspect.

"We came in and were praying for God's protection and he came through," she said.

In the exchange, Corbitt was shot in the left chest.

Shortly after, other police and ambulances began to arrive on the scene.

Neighbor Terri Bodine and her husband, of the 2000 block of Pinehurst Way, located adjacent to Augusta Court, came home to see Corbett on the ground.

"We came home from eating in Edwardsville Friday. We saw a police car and a SUV, which I think was the chief of police or something, and we did see the body," Bodine said.

"Then we saw all the paramedics and cops coming and I did speak to a detective," she said.

Corbett was taken to Anderson Hospital in Maryville where he was pronounced dead at 2:41 p.m.

The Madison County Coroner is currently processing a toxicology specimen, which will probably take four to six weeks.

The Maryville Police Department has asked the Illinois State Police Public Integrity Unit to investigate the shooting.

The State Police will investigate the incident, weapons will be examined and all reports will be brought before a Grand Jury to determine if the officer was justified in firing his weapon.

"We haven't had any indications the officer wasn't justified in the actions that he took to prevent further tragedy," State Police Violent Crimes Commander Master Sgt. Jim Morrisey said Tuesday.

Sitzes said that she believed divine providence saved them. Her husband had gotten off work early and shouldn't have been home that afternoon to help.

"I chalk it all up to God is good and the officer is a hero," she said.

Neighbor Roger Sitzes declined to comment at length, but did make one thing clear.

"The police officer was just fantastic and saved our lives," he said. "He did a really good job and he was very professional for saving us."