A Chicago police officer shot and killed a man on the South Side early Wednesday after he refused to drop a handgun he was carrying, then charged at the officer, police said.

A preliminary investigation into the shooting of Johnny Goodwin determined the officer "discharged his weapon in compliance with department guidelines," said Chicago police spokeswoman Monique Bond.

Advertisement

The office of professional standards continues to investigate and will make the final determination, she said.

Goodwin, 21, whose last known address was in the 800 block of West 83rd Street, was shot outside a home in the 8100 block of South Morgan Street, police and the Cook County medical examiner's office said.

Advertisement

Goodwin was pronounced dead about 3 a.m. at the scene.

The incident began about 12:15 a.m. when two Gresham District officers saw Goodwin acting "suspiciously" while walking east on 82nd Street near Morgan, according to police Cmdr. Dana Alexander.

When Goodwin saw the officers, he ran through an alley and the officers chased him. They saw the man place "what appeared to be a handgun into his waistband," Alexander said.

Goodwin continued trying to elude the officers by running through a gangway and jumping a fence, Alexander said. He briefly lost the officers, one of whom had left the squad car to chase him on foot, Alexander added.

When the officer on foot came upon the man crouched in a gangway stairwell of the bungalow, the man pointed a gun at the officer, Alexander said. The officer repeatedly ordered the man to drop the weapon, but "the subject rushed out of the stairwell with the weapon pointed at the officer," Alexander said.

"In fear for his life, [the officer] fired multiple times, striking the offender," Alexander said in a morning briefing near the site of the shooting Wednesday.

Police spokesman Pat Camden said a .38-caliber revolver was found in Goodwin's hand, but he had not fired any shots at the officer.

The two officers involved in the incident were assigned to a district "incident car," which police wearing civilian clothes use to patrol areas of high narcotics trafficking and gang activity. Police declined to release further details about the officers involved.

Advertisement

According to court documents, Goodwin had been arrested eight times in the last four years and was convicted of possession of marijuana in 2004. He was sentenced to 6 months of probation.

----------

dpblake@tribune.com

arozas@tribune.com