A Vallejo man who died Monday after stabbing himself and being shocked by a police Taser gun was diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic who had been off his medication for several days, his family said Tuesday.

In an interview at their Hickory Street house, Charles Gordon”s family members questioned the officer”s use of the stun gun and also what they called an improper response from hospital staff.

A police official said an officer used the Taser to subdue Gordon and get the 26-year-old medical treatment. A Sutter Solano Medical Center spokesperson, meanwhile, said the incident is under review.

After a bizarre string of events, Gordon died at Sutter Solano Medical Center after cutting his neck with a butcher knife and fighting with police.

Family members said a coroner”s official told them Tuesday that Gordon did not die from his neck wound. An autopsy did not determine an immediate cause of death because authorities don”t know what role the Taser may have played or whether Gordon had used drugs, Solano County Coroner”s Deputy John Prink said.

Toxicology tests are due back in several weeks, Prink said.

Meanwhile, Gordon family members described what they recall of Monday”s tragic events.

After serving four years in state prison for driving a car involved in the robbery of a local McDonald”s, their son was never the same, Gordon”s parents Joseph, 74, and Doris, 60, said.

“When he came out, he was all messed up,” his father said.

In 2005, Gordon was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and began taking Geodon and Depakote twice a day.

Gordon had suffered two episodes in the last three months, both times ending up at a mental hospital after stopping his medication, his family said. Police had assisted in at least one of those events, the family said, with no violence.

His mother returned to Vallejo on Saturday after burying her brother in Oklahoma. She noticed cigarette butts all over the property, a sign her son might be off his medication.

On Sunday, Gordon”s condition deteriorated, his mother said.

“He was thinking someone was in the house, someone was in the closets He was afraid to go outside,” she said. “I knew I had to get him to a hospital.”

Gordon hated hospitals, his parents said.

Family members tried to convince him to go with them to the hospital, but Gordon would agree, only to back out. What family members didn”t know was Gordon had slipped his father”s butcher knife into his pocket. Once Gordon realized the house doors were locked, the situation intensified, family members said.

“Next thing we knew he yelled really loud and his twin sister started screaming: ”Mommy, Mommy, he cut his neck!” ” Doris said.

Blood streaming down his neck, Gordon finally got into the car with his mother.

“I could hear him wheezing through the hole,” his mother said. However, she said the wound was not life-threatening and her son even managed to smoke while holding his gashed neck.

Gordon”s mother drove to Sutter Solano, while other family members mistakenly went to Kaiser Permanente Medical Center. When she pulled up to the emergency door, Doris said hospital staff did nothing to help bring Gordon into the facility.

“He drives up with a cut in the neck, that”s a medical emergency and no one comes up to help?” asked Gordon”s older sister, who declined to use her name. “I feel someone should”ve come out there.”

Reached for comment, Sutter spokesperson Edward LaFaso said: “It is our policy to always offer the highest quality of medical care to our patients. We will do everything in our power to thoroughly review the matter. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to the family.”

Frustrated, Doris said she drove toward nearby Kaiser. After a short distance, however, she said police intercepted her car, which sent Gordon into hysterics.

The officers pulled Gordon out and tried to handcuff him, she said. Doris said she yelled that her son was a schizophrenic and not to hurt him.

“Three officers wrestled him to the ground but they couldn”t get one of his hands behind his back,” she said. “After they Tased him, they finally got the other hand and then he was on the concrete face down.”

Vallejo Lt. Rick Nichelman said detectives are investigating why Gordon cut himself. Investigators have determined that Gordon “had mental health issues, but we”re not commenting further on that,” he said.

Nichelman said police initially were called to Gordon”s home, but police found their car near Sutter Solano. He said Gordon “struggled violently and continued to actively resist officers” efforts to control him and render aid to what was a visible and bleeding wound to the neck.”

Nichelman said Gordon did not immediately exhibit any signs of medical distress after being shot with the stun gun.

Family members said after police gained control, it took a while for Sutter Solano staff to arrive with a gurney and then return Gordon to the hospital.

“His eyes were closed on that gurney,” his father said. “He could”ve been dead then. That Taser might”ve killed him right there on the spot.

“In situations like these, he didn”t do no crimes, they should”ve just left him alone. They should”ve just followed him. He probably would”ve just walked home,” he said. “If you”re exhausted after fighting with police, your heart”s not going to take that.”

The family said Gordon”s medicine induced a strong appetite, which left him overweight.

One of 12 children, Gordon was a People”s High School graduate who loved music, photography, college football and children, his family said.

His twin sister Tracie has been hit especially hard.

“My heart”s been ripped out of my chest,” she said.

As is routine in all in-custody death cases, the Solano County District Attorney”s Office is investigating.

Taser use has been controversial in recent years after some forensic pathologists have refused to rule out the possibility that the typical 50,000-volt charge can contribute to the death of suspects with acute drug intoxication.

E-mail Matthias Gafni at mgafni@thnewsnet.com or call 553-6825.