Kent Spence of The Spence Law Firm in Jackson, Wyo., released the following statement today regarding a $1 million settlement between Clackamas County and the family of Fouad Kaady, who was fatally shot by officers in 2005. Spence, his father Gerry Spence and Michelle Burrows of Portland, Oregon were the lead lawyers on the case:

The case of Kaady vs. Clackamas County and Deputy David Willard settled for a million dollars, after last years' million dollar settlement against City of Sandy and Officer William Bergin who is now off the Sandy Police force due to criminal activity.

Fouad Kaady, age 27 at the time, was ruthlessly shot down with 7 bullets by Willard and Bergin, while he was unarmed, naked and in extreme need of medical care. Fouad Kaady had third degree burns over 40% of his body due to a fire that started, according to an Oregon State Police fire inspector, inside the engine compartment of the car, spreading through the firewall into the cabin of the vehicle. This caused Mr. Kaady to lose control of his vehicle and crash into 3 vehicles before fleeing from the burning car.

Fouad Kaady left the scene while disoriented and in medical shock and was found a short time later sitting in the rural road 362nd. When the officers arrived, Fouad was sitting calmly, bleeding severely with skin hanging from his face, torso, arms and hands. He complied when Deputy Willard told him to raise his hands. He did not comply with laying on his torso on his third degree burns on the hot pavement or on the grass and dirt on the side of the road. For not doing so he was tasered in the back and two additional taserings before he got up and ran to get away from the officers.

Until this time he was calm and only needed medical care. Mr. Kaady ran from the officers, getting on top of the police car. He was shot at close range 7 times by the officers, 4 bullets from behind, and fell head first off the police cruiser with his back to the officers.

An ambulance had pulled up to the scene after hearing overthe dispatch the call for medical help and watched the killing take placeand pronounced Fouad dead. The driver did not understand why they shot him.

The family of Fouad Kaady say he was no threat to the officers and this was nothing less than murder of their beloved son and brother. Even law enforcement officers cannot use excessive force or deadly force when a person is not armed.

Fouad was survived by his mother Samira, father Rachid and sisters Andrea and Vania. The family believes Deputy Willard should have been terminated from his job and cannot believe he is still a gun carrying deputy with the Clackamas County Sheriff's Department. They also cannot understand how a "veteran" in law enforcement who "was a member of the Clackamas County Negotiators Team, with extensive experience dealing with individuals in crisis", could have used such poor judgment in shooting Foaud Kaady. By Willard's own testimony, he was afraid to make contact with Kaady because he was so bloody.

The family has mixed feelings about settling this case because they feel it would have been important for the truth of this killing to come out in jury Civil Rights trial. However, when weighed against the further toll it would have taken on the families' emotional well-being, the family opted to settle and avoid the pain of the upcoming 3 week trial. The family feels they finally received justice with the two million dollars in settlement from the City of Sandy and Clackamas County, since money justice is the only kind of justice they could get under the law.