Man killed by police is named

Baltimore police identified yesterday a man who was fatally shot Sunday by police during a confrontation in which he held his brother at knifepoint inside a West Baltimore home.

Advertisement

Relatives had called police to a home in the 2500 block of Lauretta Ave. for a domestic dispute. Family members told police that a man inside had a knife. Officers went inside and found Darryl Harcum, 45, holding a knife to his brother's throat.

When the brother tried to run, Harcum chased and tried to stab him. Officer Dwayne Green, a seven-year veteran in the Western District, shot Harcum several times, according to Sterling Clifford, a police spokesman.

Advertisement

Harcum was taken to Maryland Shock Trauma Center, where he died of his injuries.

Green has been assigned to administrative duties pending an investigation.

Gus Sentementes

Wounded man identified

Baltimore County police have identified a man who was shot and seriously wounded near his home in Woodlawn late Sunday as Christopher William Mitchell of the 1600 block of Kirkwood Road.

Mitchell, 22, and his brother were walking along the road shortly before 9 p.m. when they encountered four males in their mid- to late teens, said Bill Toohey, a county police spokesman. Words were exchanged, and one of the four youths pulled a handgun and shot Mitchell in the face, Toohey said.

Mitchell was taken to Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore, where he was treated for wounds that were not considered life-threatening, Toohey said.

The police investigation continues, Toohey said

Advertisement

Josh Mitchell

Man robs store in Abingdon

A 7-Eleven store in Abingdon was robbed at knifepoint late Sunday, the Harford County Sheriff's Office reported.

A man entered the convenience store in the 3500 block of Philadelphia Road about 11:30 p.m. and gathered some items as if to make a purchase. He then displayed a knife to the clerk and demanded money before fleeing on foot.

No one was injured, and the authorities have not identified a suspect.

Madison Park

Advertisement

Dundalk woman shot to death at her home

A 29-year-old mother of four was fatally shot inside her Dundalk residence early yesterday, Baltimore County police said.

Officers responding to a report of a shooting about 5:45 a.m. in the 6800 block of Dunbar Road found Lymaris Mejias fatally wounded in a basement bedroom of a duplex she rented. Witnesses told police that two or more men had entered the house, shot the woman and left, said Bill Toohey, a county police spokesman.

Investigators had no suspects and knew of no motive for the shooting. Police would not say how entry was gained.

A neighbor, Walter Brooks, 77, a retired steelworker, said he last saw Mejias over the weekend. She had a "worried look on her face," he said. "I didn't ask her why."

Brooks described Mejias as an attractive and friendly woman who flew the Puerto Rican flag in her yard.

Advertisement

He said neither he nor his daughter heard gunfire or other noise coming from the woman's home.

Mejias' children, ranging in age from 3 to 15, were in the home at the time of the shooting, as were a man, a second woman and her infant, police said.

Mejias is the county's 28th homicide victim this year.

Josh Mitchell