Sunnyvale police officers shot and killed one man and arrested two others this morning on the 1100 block of Ayala Drive, according to the Sunnyvale Department of Public Safety. The shooting occurred at 10:37 a.m., while officers were investigating suspects in an Aug. 17 killing.

Citing their ongoing investigation, police would not immediately release the identity of the dead man, nor of the two people arrested.

As a result of the confrontation today between police and suspects in the killing, two nearby schools were locked down, police said, although the students were never at risk. Classrooms were locked at Vargas Elementary School on Carson Drive and St. Cyprian Catholic School on Leota Avenue.

The lockdown at Vargas School lasted 15 or 20 minutes and was lifted before lunch time, Superintendent Joseph Rudnicki of the Sunnyvale School District reported. The Diocese of San Jose reported that St. Cyprian was under lockdown for about half an hour. Students and staff were not endangered at either school, both police and school officials said.

Police have taped off about a half-block section of Ayala and are rerouting traffic, according to police Lt. James Bouziane.

The shooting victim was transported by ambulance to Stanford University Hospital. He died at 2:31 p.m., police said.

It could not be learned whether he had been armed.

The Sunnyvale Public Safety Department routinely places officers involved in fatal shootings on administrative leave, Bouziane said. The department would not release the names of those involved in the shooting.

On Aug. 17, police responded to calls about a fight on the 1100 block of Ayala. They reported that Pablo Rosales, 21, of Sunnyvale, had been stabbed several times. He had then fled with friends, in a white, four-door Saturn, and apparently died in the parking lot of the Hilton Garden Inn on El Camino Real near the Highway 85 overcrossing in Mountain View.

The Department of Public Safety and the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office are investigating today’s shooting.