Two Chicago officers fatally shot a teenager on the Southeast Side on Thursday night, after the 15-year-old fired at another man and later aimed a gun at the officers, police said.

About 9:45 p.m., two South Chicago District tactical unit officers were driving on East 87th Street when they heard a gunshot, police spokeswoman Monique Bond said.

Advertisement

They continued to Escanaba Avenue and saw the teen carrying a large chrome handgun, heading north across 87th. The officers saw him fire at a man across the street.

The officers chased the teen into an alley behind his home between Exchange and Commercial Avenues, where they ordered him to drop the weapon, Bond said. When he turned and pointed the gun at the officers, they opened fire, striking him in the head.

Advertisement

Meliton Recendez, of the 2900 block of East 87th, was pronounced dead at 12:06 a.m. at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

The man Recendez shot at was grazed in the leg and taken to Advocate Christ in good condition, Bond said. He was interviewed by investigators and corroborated the accounts of the officers involved, she said.

On Friday, Recendez's family questioned the police account. They said Recendez, a freshman at New Millennium School of Health High School, was in the middle of watching a movie with his sisters and girlfriend Thursday night when he went to the corner store to buy juice, family members said. His mother, Elsa Cardenas, said she thinks he was caught in the crossfire of an ongoing neighborhood gang dispute.

She said her son was trying to stay out of trouble because he was on probation for throwing a rock at a car in January. The teen had three juvenile arrests on his record, Bond said.

"He was trying to stay out of trouble, that's why he was running," Cardenas said. "I'm not going to say he was all goody-two-shoes ... [but] that doesn't give the cops the right to shoot him."

Neighbor Ellen Lee, who saw the teenager lying on the ground in the alley after he was shot, said she saw a chrome gun under Recendez when paramedics turned him over. She said the violence in the neighborhood has escalated in the last few months.

----------

mowen@tribune.com