A Brooklyn cop was shot dead early yesterday in the Long Island home she shared with her boyfriend, a fellow NYPD officer, Suffolk County cops said.

He was suspended from the department last night although he had not been charged in the case, police sources said.

Advertisement

The brutal killing stunned friends of the young couple, who said Officers Sonia Garcia and Alexis Chaparro had planned to marry this spring in the backyard of their North Bay Shore home.

"They met in the academy. They started out in the same car," said Annette Pache, who sold the pair their Ackerson Blvd. ranch home. "It was a Cinderella story."

Advertisement

Chaparro was questioned by cops for hours yesterday, but he stopped cooperating about 4 p.m. and was released, sources said.

Garcia reportedly was felled by a single shot to the chest. Police said Garcia's death was not being treated as a suicide.

"They can't place the gun in his hand yet," said a source. "They are waiting for the autopsy and to look at the fatal bullet, as well as DNA and other evidence."

Chaparro told Suffolk police that he found his 28-year-old lover shot in the bedroom, sources said.

"He says he's broken-hearted because he found her dead in their home," a police source said.

Chaparro, 27, a Police Academy instructor and boxer, called 911 to report the incident about 5:15 a.m., the sources said.

Neighbors said they saw him led handcuffed from the house.

"He appeared to be in a daze," one said. "He had no shirt on. He said, 'Why are you doing this to me? I didn't do anything wrong.' "

Advertisement

Garcia, a mother of two girls from a previous marriage, was shot after returning home from her shift in Brooklyn's 77th Precinct, sources said.

Garcia's uncle Francisco Hernandez told Channel 11 through tears, "It's incredible that he'd do that. He's crazy. . . . The fiancé's a crazy guy."

Garcia's daughters, Ashley, 11, and Joselin, 7, were staying with relatives at the time of the shooting, relatives said.

Joe Rainone, event coordinator of the NYPD Fighting Finest Boxing Team, said of Chaparro, "He is a level-headed, even-tempered guy.

"If he wasn't, he wouldn't have been assigned to the job he had."

Chaparro and Garcia both graduated from the Police Academy in July 2003, their friends said.

Advertisement

They moved to Long Island several months ago and planned to raise a family in the four-bedroom home with a big backyard on a leafy block.

Garcia's former mother-in-law, Ana Tejada, 68, was devastated to learn yesterday that the cop was dead.

Tejeda said Garcia's marriage to her son crumbled because of her devotion to the NYPD.

"The marriage broke because my son told her, 'I don't want you to be a police officer.' But Sonia would not listen," Tejada said. "My God, this is terrible."

agendar@nydailynews.com