October 4, 2007

Reported by Theresa Schmidt

The search for a fugitive has ended on a country road in rural Beauregard parish... Neighbors are shocked and saddened to hear of the suspect's violent end.

In this secluded area of Beauregard parish residents say there's never any trouble and many even leave their doors unlocked. So they are shocked to find out that John Brown-- a dangerous fugitive-- led police on a chase that ended badly on nearby Margie Carnahan Road.

Says resident Nicole Caldwell, "I just moved here about three months ago. It's really peaceful and nice around here and it's really scary to think, but you know it's like that all over the world. Plus people here know Brown's family."

Resident Tressie Ensminger knows Brown's family."We went to church with that child when he was a small child. It's just unbelievable that somebody could get that messed up in life."

Brown had been on the run since a hit and run Friday when police say he pulled an assault rifle on a state trooper. He was apparently desperate to avoid incarceration according to Beauregard Chief Deputy Robert McCullough. "We had been told by some of the family members that he said he was not going to go back to jail."

Brown avoided detection for several days, but then entered a home near Highway 113 and demanded car keys from the woman who lived there. Once he was spotted in the stolen car, a chase ensued. Law officers from Allen, Beauregard and DeRidder Police were in pursuit. When Brown found himself cornered on the dead end road, McCullough says he stabbed himself. "He was ordered to put the knife down, when he refused he was tased. After being tased he was removed from the vehicle. It was determined his injuries were life threatening and serious. Acadian Ambulance was called, CPR was begun on Mr. Brown."

But McCullough says Brown was pronounced dead by ambulance attendants. And while residents shudder at the violence, Ensminger says Brown comes from good people. "We went to church with them for a long time, 25 years. I don't understand. You know, there's so much dope and such going on now, young people are just going crazy over it. And they kill themselves or somebody. I just feel sorry for the family."

Beauregard deputies have asked state police to investigate Brown's death, an autopsy on Brown is to be done by the Calcasieu Parish Coroner.