A Dana Point man shot and killed Monday after exchanging fire with a warden from the California Department of Fish and Game had been working with a group growing medical marijuana, authorities said Wednesday.

The shooting, the first such incident for the department in over 75 years, unfolded after a warden attempted to arrest 39-year-old Bartyn Pitts for an outstanding warrant in Jarbo Gap, a remote area in the Sierra Nevada foothills east of Chico, said Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey.

Pitts became “very agitated” when the warden told him he was going to be arrested, Ramsey said.

“He ran into the travel trailer and he came back out with a 12-gauge shotgun, he pointed it at the warden, shot and missed,” Ramsey said. “The warden returned fire with his handgun.”

Ramsey said Pitts fired once at the warden, but would not release further details of the shooting pending an investigation. The warden has been placed on administrative leave.

A friend of Pitts’ – a 24-year-old man from Hawaii – was detained for questioning and released. He had been at the property with Pitts for a week, Ramsey said.

The investigation, by the Butte County Officer Involved Shooting Team, is expected to be completed by the end of the week.

The shooting is the first time a suspect has been killed by a state warden in more than 75 years, said Steve Martarano, spokesman for the California Department of Fish and Game. The last incident occurred sometime from 1928 to 1930, when a warden was shot through the jaw, then returned fire to kill the suspect.

The incident started Monday with the warden citing Pitts for starting an illegal fire Saturday in Feather River Canyon. The warden radioed in Pitts’ information and learned he was wanted on a $50,000 warrant in Hawaii for the sale or distribution of methamphetamine, Ramsey said.

The warden returned to the property where Pitts was a caretaker to make the arrest. That’s when the shooting occurred, Ramsey said.

The warden first spotted Pitts on Saturday night while he was looking for “spotlighters” – people who illegally shoot deer at night – Ramsey said.

Pitts is believed to have been at the property owned by a man from Chico since April.

He was working with a group growing medical marijuana, Ramsey said. Authorities found marijuana buds in Pitts’ trailer, but because they didn’t know how many plants had been harvested, they couldn’t tell whether it was past the legal limit, Ramsey said.

“Pitts would stay there, run the collective and keep an eye on the property,” Ramsey said. “It was in exchange for rent.”

Pitts has had other run-ins with the law. In 1997, he pleaded guilty to possession of a controlled substance. He also faced several civil lawsuits from 1994 to 2007 in Orange and Santa Barbara counties and in Hawaii and had a misdemeanor in 1992 in Santa Barbara County.

In September 2003, he faced a student conduct hearing after allegedly threatening a teaching assistant after failing a course at UC Santa Barbara, according to the school newspaper.

But two months before, he was selected for the dean’s list during the spring quarter as a law and society major.

Pitts’ mother, who lives in Orange County, told authorities she had not seen her son for a while.

Contact the writer: shernandez@ocregister.com or 949-45-7361