Flint Journal extras

Previous articles on this accident:

• Oct. 31, 2007: Davison man involved in high-speed chase faces forensic testing



• More below

GENESEE COUNTY, Michigan

--

Dean E. Davis

allegedly led police on a high-speed chase and slammed into a vehicle, killing a female driver who was also struck head-on by another vehicle.

Yet Davis, whose own vehicle ended up in a ditch, was able to flee on foot and hide in a wooded area for hours.When police caught him, more than five hours after the Oct. 16 crash, Davis was walking down the road, wearing a portable deer blind on his back and pieces of camouflage material tied to his arms and legs.



Flint Journal extras

Additional articles on this accident:

• Oct. 22, 2007: Man who fled police charged with murder in motorist's death



• Oct. 17, 2007: Police identify woman killed in Forest Twp. crash



• Oct. 16, 2007: Police continue search for suspect whose chase led to fatal crash



• Oct. 16, 2007: Police blockade area in Forest Township looking for suspect

At a preliminary examination Wednesday, police said Davis gave them a false name, did not respond to questions and had fresh facial injuries.

It took three state troopers to subdue the struggling Davis, who was tasered and then arrested.

That and other testimony was enough for a judge to order Davis, 38, of Davison, to stand trial on charges of manslaughter with a motor vehicle and first degree fleeing police causing death, both 15-year felonies, two 10-year felonies of fleeing police causing serious injury, and assaulting/resisting/obstructing police, a 2-year felony.

Central District Judge Mark C. McCabe scheduled a March 24 circuit court arraignment for Davis, who is being held in the Genesee County Jail on a $275,000 cash bond.

The crash occurred about 11:40 a.m. on E. Dodge Road near Oak and Henderson roads in Forest Township.

Linda Ann Haney, 56, of Otter Lake was killed in the crash when her vehicle was struck from behind, causing it to cross the center line and strike another vehicle traveling west on Dodge Road.

Nancy Rogers, 60, of Flint, told assistant Genesee County Prosecutor Christopher Larobardiere she and Haney were returning from Flint when she heard a loud bang.

Rogers, who testified while sitting in a wheel chair, said her ankle was shattered and she suffered other broken bones from the rear-end crash.

She spent nearly a month in the hospital and endured four surgeries and skin grafts. Rogers said both she and Haney were wearing seat belts.

Haney's vehicle struck one operated by Ronnie Chambers, 57, of Otter Lake, who said he saw flashing police lights as he traveled west on Dodge Road.

Chambers said he then saw a vehicle passing another vehicle on the shoulder of the road and disappear before being struck head-on by the other vehicle.

After hearing a bang, Chambers said his dashboard was against his knees and his left leg was bent at an odd angle, touching his right knee.

The Jaws of Life had to be used to extricate him from his vehicle, he said. Chambers sustained a crushed ankle, fractures of his femur and pelvis, and a punctured diaphragm.

He also testified while sitting in a wheel chair.

State police Trooper Rick Kane said he saw Davis speeding north on Irish Road near Richfield Road and pursued him.

He briefly lost sight of Davis, but saw him run a stop sign at Irish and Coldwater roads, cut through a business parking lot on M-15, and pass other vehicles on the shoulder of the road at speeds of more than 100 miles per hour.

He said Davis cut through a field while turning onto Dodge Road. The next time he saw Davis was after the crash, running from his vehicle into the woods, he said.

Kane said he had his lights and siren operating during the eight-minute, eight-mile chase, which was captured on video from his patrol car, except for the crash, and viewed by McCabe at the hearing.

Davis was recently determined competent for trial.