A grand jury Thursday refused to bring charges against an off-duty cop who shot a motorist last year in a Manhattan road-rage beef and then fled the scene of the killing.

District Attorney Robert Morgenthau announced that Officer Sean Sawyer will face only internal NYPD sanctions for killing Jayson Tirado, who died after he said he had a gun and then gestured as if he had one.

Advertisement

"The grand jury accepted that he had a right to defend himself in the face of a deadly threat," said Sawyer's attorney, Richard Murray.

Ron Kuby, the lawyer representing Tirado's fiancee, called it a case of cops getting away with murder.

Advertisement

"Fingers, cellphones - the police have an endless list of reasons to claim why they shoot unarmed people," he said.

"He didn't even get ticketed for littering for leaving Jayson Tirado's body on the street!"

Morgenthau said it turns out that leaving a shooting and failing to report it is not a crime in New York - even for a cop.

"I'm sure that most people would be shocked to learn that," he said. "I share their outrage. As a result of this case, we will be submitting legislation to change that."

Police sources said Sawyer is almost certain to lose his job. "You can't fire your gun and disappear for 19 hours. Even if he didn't hit anyone, he would be in trouble. In this case, he killed someone and ran," a source said.

Tirado's mother wailed in despair, clutching a cardboard box of his ashes that she keeps with photos and a cross as a makeshift memorial in the apartment they shared in the Jacob Riis Houses on E. 10th St.

"They robbed me of my son and nobody is going to do anything," cried Irene Tirado, 54. "There was no gun. This was just a brutal murder."

Sawyer, 35, killed Tirado, 25, on Oct. 21, after an early Sunday morning road rage incident escalated into a chase on First Ave. in East Harlem.

Advertisement

According to Sawyer and one of Tirado's passengers, the unarmed Tirado called out, "Want to see my new Ruger?" and extended his arm as they drove near E. 117th St.

Sawyer shot Tirado once in the torso at 5:49 a.m. and Tirado drove three more blocks before slumping over.

Sawyer said he fled in panic without realizing he had hit anyone. About 19 hours later - at 1 a.m. Oct. 22 - he flagged down a patrol car and said he'd just seen a TV report about the shooting.

Sawyer, who had been at a Woodside, Queens, bar before the shooting, did not have to take a Breathalyzer test - a new regulation enacted after the Sean Bell shooting - because he had left the scene.

Lisa Claudio, 30, Tirado's fiancée and the mother of his 5-year-old daughter, Jaylene, said the officer should have been charged with leaving the scene.

"You just left a boy there to die and didn't even report it? You're a cop. That's your duty. How are you not going to get charged for leaving him?"

Advertisement

bross@nydailynews.com