R.I.P. Michael Kim...

Chase on 10 turns deadly

Fleeing suspect broadsides car

By Tania Chatila, Staff Writer

ROSEMEAD - A freeway pursuit Thursday morning resulted in the death of an Arcadia man who was killed when his car was struck by a car fleeing the California Highway Patrol, authorities said.

The victim, identified as Michael Kim, 20, was in his Honda Civic on an onramp to the eastbound San Bernardino (10) Freeway from San Gabriel Boulevard about 12:30 a.m. when he was killed.

Kim's car was struck by a GMC Suburban on the parallel offramp, said Brian Gonsalves, a sergeant with the CHP. Police had been pursuing the vehicle for several minutes, Gonsalves said.

Arrested in connection with the collision was Alexander Contreras, 22, of Inglewood. He was booked on suspicion of murder, drunken driving and evading police, authorities said.

Just minutes before the fatal crash, officers had tried to stop the Suburban on the eastbound 10 about seven miles west of the accident, near City Terrace, Officer Bill Preciado said.

Police believed the SUV's driver was drunk, but when they turned on their lights and sirens, the Suburban took off, reaching speeds of 90 mph.

"When he exited the freeway, (the driver) failed to negotiate the turn," Gonsalves said. "It appears he broadsided the Honda Civic and both vehicles came to rest on a dirt median."

Kim was pronounced dead at the scene, officials said.

Contreras, who suffered minor injuries, is being held on $1million bond.

Contreras has a criminal record, though Preciado would not divulge any details.

A blood sample has been sent out for toxicology reports, but Preciado was certain the evidence would show the suspect was drunk at the time of the wreck.

"In this case, (Kim) couldn't really avoid it," Preciado said. "It just happened.

"Basically, his life was cut short by the irresponsibility of a 22-year-old who had a blatant disregard for his own safety, for our officers' safety and for the safety of the overall public on that freeway," Preciado said.

Kim's private profile page on MySpace.com was updated about 5 a.m. Thursday, with the words "R.I.P. Michael Kim."

According to the CHP's official pursuit policy, officers "shall abort a pursuit when directed by a supervisor and ... when the risk of continuing outweighs the danger of permitting the subject to escape, documents show.

"There was no determining factor that would have led our officers to abort this pursuit," Preciado said. "Traffic conditions were light. There were no weather conditions that would make it unsafe."

The chase lasted about 3 minutes, he said.

"Every pursuit is done with the safety of the officer, suspect and public in mind," said Fran Clader, a CHP spokeswoman in Sacramento.

She said that the CHP's pursuit policy has served as a model for agencies across the nation.

"You have to remember the easiest way for us to terminate a pursuit is for the offender to pull over and stop when the red light and siren goes on," Clader said. "It's incumbent upon the suspect."

While charges have not been filed, Contreras will likely face between 10 and 15 years in prison, at the least, Preciado said.

"What this 22-year-old might have gotten if pulled over is misdemeanor DUI," he said. "It's now upgraded to 3 felony counts. ... Just pull over. It's not worth what could happen."

- - - - -

I can't believe you're gone. I'm so sorry I wasn't a better friend. I didn't want to believe it was you.

www.myspace.com/krnxboy87

Done