Michael Buller, 53, of Riverside, has been identified as the Armada Bandit who killed himself Friday afternoon in front of horrified witnesses in Dana Point after robbing a bank in Anaheim and being pursued by police officers for 35 miles.

The Orange County Coroner’s office identified Buller, who was pronounced dead at 1:30 p.m. at Saddleback Memorial Medical Center in San Clemente. Buller was wanted in connection with at least a dozen bank robberies in Orange, Los Angeles and San Diego counties, sheriff’s spokesman Jim Amormino said.

From May 11 to Friday, Buller was suspected of robbing banks in Yorba Linda, Fullerton, Azusa, La Mesa, Costa Mesa, Los Alamitos, Placentia, San Diego and Anaheim. His favorite target appeared to be First Bank branches; he was suspected of robbing them five times.

After a police pursuit, Buller left his truck and fired a single shot to his head from a .38-caliber handgun near the Ocean Institute in Dana Point. He was dubbed the Armada Bandit because he wore a baseball hat with an eagle crest surrounded with the words, “United States Navy,” Armormino said.

The FBI’s Los Angeles office had listed him among the area’s top eight “most wanted” bandits.

No other injuries were reported. But the incident forced the evacuation of the nearby Ocean Institute and tied up traffic as police tried unsuccessfully to get Buller to surrender.

The incident began just after noon Friday when Buller walked into the Washington Mutual Bank on the 500 block of North Euclid Street in Anaheim.

He took what police described only as a “large sum of money” and fled in a rented, gray 2004 Ford F-150 pickup south on the I-5 Freeway.

Anaheim police caught up with Buller on the freeway near State College Boulevard, at the border of Anaheim and Orange, and followed close behind. The suspect drove about 40 mph to 65 mph and repeatedly switched lanes, but wasn’t driving erratically, officials said.

He was spotted tossing a wad of cash out of the window as he drove along the freeway.



“He saw police and alternated putting a cell phone, then a handgun to his head,” said Anaheim police spokesman Sgt. Rick Martinez. “It was clear he wasn’t going to pull over.”

The California Highway Patrol ran traffic breaks but allowed Anaheim officers to lead the pursuit.

The suspect exited the freeway at Pacific Coast Highway in Dana Point and headed toward the harbor around 12:40 p.m. with several police cars in pursuit.

When he arrived at the marina, he ran out of road. He jumped out of his truck and jogged toward the Ocean Institute.

Police followed with guns drawn. A crisis negotiator from Anaheim police talked to the man and tried to get him to surrender his weapon. A police helicopter buzzed overhead.

After about 10 minutes, Buller put his .38-caliber gun to his head and pulled the trigger. No officer fired a weapon, Martinez said.

“The guy was just standing near some picnic tables and I could see about 10 cops nearby with their guns drawn,” said Warren Willson, 17, who had been eating at a nearby Denny’s and ran to check on the commotion. He stood about 100 yards away.

“Then we could hear a pop,” Willson said. “It didn’t sound at all like the movies. It was just a little pop, then the guy fell. It only dawned on me later that I’d just seen a guy kill himself. … That’s a disturbing thing to see.”

Martinez said it also was difficult for officers to watch from close range.



Sheriff’s investigators searched the man’s vehicle and found a large amount of cash. Police believe all of the stolen cash was recovered.

Investigators later were able to determine who the suspect had been speaking to by cell phone. “He apparently called family members and said he didn’t want to go back to jail,” Amormino said.

Register staff writers Amanda Glowish and Amanda Pazornik contributed to this report.