A Harvey police officer fatally shot a teenage boy in the back after the teen allegedly pointed a gun at him, authorities said Thursday.

Roque Dominguez, 17, of the 15500 block of Park Avenue in Harvey, was pronounced dead at St. James Hospital and Health Centers in Olympia Fields an hour after the shooting Wednesday night. He died of the gunshot wound, the Cook County medical examiner's office said.

Advertisement

Authorities said police were called to the area of 158th Street and Emerald Avenue about 7 p.m. in response to "suspicious subjects" who appeared to be armed.

When an officer approached the group, Dominguez displayed a handgun and pointed it at one of the officers, police spokeswoman Sandra Alvarado said in a statement. The officer shot the teen because he feared for his life, she said.

Advertisement

Alvarado did not indicate whether the police found a weapon or how the teen ended up being shot in the back. After the shooting, three men were arrested, Alvarado said, but none has been charged.

The case is being investigated by the Illinois State Police, Alvarado said.

The shooting enraged Dominguez's family and friends.

Dominguez's sister Graciela, 24, said her family did not learn that her brother had been killed until early Thursday. When family members showed up at the Harvey police station, they were not told what happened or what led to the shooting, she said. They were told to contact the state police and to get the number from the phone book, she added.

"My mom doesn't understand why this could happen," Graciela Dominguez said, tears welling up in her eyes. "It's broken my family's heart. We want justice, and we're not going to have this."

Roque Dominguez grew up in Harvey, his sister said. He was born at Ingalls Memorial Hospital and attended Thornton Township High School. He was the youngest of five siblings, his sister said.

On Thursday afternoon, family members gathered at his home to try to make sense of the shooting. A half-mile away, his siblings and friends hugged one another near the site where the teen was slain. They posted a sign that read "R.I.P. Rocky" on a tree next to a bouquet of roses.

"I know everyone says their family is good, but he really was," said Gabriel Dominguez, 27. "It doesn't matter what's done now. I'll never get my brother back."

Advertisement

He said the family was struggling with how to explain the shooting death to his oldest sister, who was en route from Missouri. As he talked to friends, she called his cell phone, and he avoided picking up.

"We can't tell her he's dead," he said, choking back his tears. "He's been dead since [Wednesday] night, but how can we tell her that? How can we say it over the phone?"

A cousin, Robelio Perez, said Roque Dominguez wanted to join the military when he graduated from high school. He didn't run with a bad crowd and came straight home from school, Perez said.

Graciela Dominguez said her feelings vacillated from sadness to anger.

"Who can we trust in Harvey?" she said. "We can't trust cops ... We can't trust criminals. How can we feel safe in this place, our home?"

----------

Advertisement

lbowean@tribune.com

jnapolitano@tribune.com