SNc Channels:



Search

About Salem-News.com



Nov-12-2007 13:58 TweetFollow @OregonNews 66-Year Old Man Shot by Josephine County Oregon Deputies Police say 66-year old Paul Harrison Chesser was shot dead after pointing a gun at deputies.

Photos of shooting scene: Oregon State Police

(GRANTS PASS, Ore.) - Information regarding a fatal police shooting Saturday morning that involved Josephine County Oregon deputies, is being released by Oregon State Police Oregon State Police troopers say they are leading the investigation with the assistance of Josephine County Sheriff's Office, Grants Pass Department of Public Safety and Josephine County District Attorney's Office. The name of the man shot by deputies is being released, but the names of the involved deputies will be withheld pending completion of their interviews by detectives. State Police Spokesman Greg Hastings says the situation began early Saturday at 2:03 AM, when a 911 call was placed from the residence at 28351 Redwood Highway. The caller was reporting that a male subject who was known to him had a gun and fired shots, threatening others, Hastings said. Hastings says four Josephine County Sheriff deputies arrived on scene at approximately 2:30 AM and confronted 66-year old Paul Harrison Chesser, who Hastings says was armed with a handgun. "The deputies ordered Mr. Chesser to put the firearm down numerous times but he refused, pointing it at the deputies several times." Hastings says that during the standoff, Mr. Chesser pointed the handgun at one of the deputies and that is when gun fire was exchanged. Mr. Chesser, who lives at the residence, was pronounced deceased at the scene. Hastings says investigators anticipate releasing the names of the deputies involved in the incident Tuesday afternoon, but they haven't released the names yet. "No further information will be released at this time without authorization of Josephine County District Attorney Steve Campbell," Hastings added. Story continues below Anyone with information regarding this incident is asked to contact Oregon State Police Detective Tom Harrison at (541) 776-6114 ext. 236. Photograph Source - Oregon State Police

Oregon | Most Commented on





Articles for November 11, 2007 | Articles for November 12, 2007 | Articles for November 13, 2007