Karen Nugent TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

Bolton’s finest will be moving down the road a piece, following approval of nearly $6 million in debt exclusions yesterday for a new public safety building with a training room.

The $5.7 million request for the building, which will house the Police, Fire and Ambulance departments, passed by a vote of 287-156 in the special election.

A second ballot question, requesting $270,000 for the training center, was approved 282-161, bringing the total price tag for the station to nearly $6 million.

The training center will also serve as a public meeting room, or an emergency response center in the event of a crisis. Officials during the campaign for the room pointed out that with two state highways and an interstate crossing through Bolton, serious accidents and criminal activity are not uncommon.

The building, actually an addition, will be constructed off Wattaquadock Hill Road, where the fire station stands.

Police Chief Vincent C. Alfano, who was at Town Hall along with a firefighter and several members of the ambulance crew when the results were tallied last night, said the new station will be on town-owned land attached to the fire station, which he described as a good, solid building.

The chief said parts of the station would be updated and used for administrative duties.

Chief Alfano attributed the nearly 2-1 passage of the debt exclusion to “a lot of hard work put in by a lot of people.”

Out of 3,046 registered Bolton voters, 343 cast votes in yesterday’s election. Election Warden Alice Roemer said the polls were fairly quiet most of the day.

Town meeting voters approved both items on Nov. 5, but they were contingent on passage at yesterday’s election.

The $6 million loan will likely be taken out for 20 years.

According to the town’s Advisory Committee, the building and training room will cost the average homeowner an additional $22 a year for the first four years, and then drop each year after that, until the note is paid off.

Chief Alfano said officials have preliminary design plans for the building, but requests for bids would go out for the final design.

A new police station has been on and off the table since the 1980s.

The town’s current station, in the Houghton Building, an old school at 703 Main St., is cramped and considered unsafe because there are no jail cells. People in custody must be handcuffed to a bar in full view of the public, and in reach of officers’ weapons.

Former Chief Celia S. Hyde, who wrote a long report on problems with the station, went so far as to have a storage container placed behind the station for documents and other items.

A string of studies on improving, relocating or building a new station provided various sites and scenarios, including enlarging the current station and buying more land there, or buying other parcels, including the old Smith Mobil station on Main Street, the site of a new senior housing complex on Main Street near Interstate 495, a site near there but closer to I-495, property at 32 Sugar Road, and property at 649 Main St.

All were rejected by officials or voters for various reasons.