A Brooklyn teen – wielding only a hairbrush – was killed last night in a hail of up to 15 bullets fired by cops who had been called by his mother, who told them he had a gun, police sources said.

Just before five cops opened fire, the 18-year-old shouted, “I got a gun!” and walked toward cops, the sources said.

They quoted witnesses as also telling officers, “He’s got a gun.”

No weapon was recovered.

Police said the youth, identified by sources as Khiel Coppin, had a history of mental illness and that his mother – who was there when he was shot – had tried to have him hospitalized earlier in the day.

Witnesses told The Post that Coppin – whose street name was “The Little G” – was holding the hairbrush and had his hands up when he was shot at 7:15 p.m. outside 590 Gates Ave. in the Medgar Evers housing project in Bedford-Stuyvesant.

But police sources said the officers opened fire after he reached under his shirt and pulled out a black object that cops later acknowledged was a hairbrush.

He died at Woodhull Hospital. His body was riddled with about a dozen bullet holes, some of them exit wounds.

The shooters were two sergeants and a detective from the 79th Precinct and two housing cops, the sources said.

Officers had gone to the building after Coppin’s distraught mom called 911, telling the operator that her son was armed. He was heard in the background saying he had a gun, police said.

When cops arrived, the mom was out on the street and her son was inside, pacing around the home, cops said.

Coppin then barricaded himself in a bedroom and, with a knife in his hand, opened the door and shouted, “Shoot me! Shoot me!” sources said.

He then started yelling from a window down to cops and his mom, saying at one point, “I got a gun!” the police sources said.

After that, Coppin climbed out of the first-floor window without the knife and walked toward the cops.

They ordered him several times to stop. He ignored them, reaching under his shirt and pulling the hairbrush.

That’s when the cops opened fire, the sources said.

Andre Sanchez, 17, who lives nearby, saw cops rush into the building, and followed them into the hallway.

He said they forced in the apartment door and were shouting at him to come out of the bedroom. Cops told Sanchez to go outside, and there he saw Coppin at his window.

“I saw him put his hands out of the window, and then he got on top of the windowsill and sat down and jumped onto the street with his hands up and the brush in his hands,” Sanchez said.

“And that’s when they shot him.”

Sanchez said a cop wearing a white commanding-officer’s shirt later asked another officer, “Why did you shoot him?”

Sanchez’s sister, Jazmin, 23, said, “All I heard were mad gunshots. And that’s when I started running.

“After they shot him, they put handcuffs on him and dragged him away. He looked like he was dead.”

An angry crowd gathered, but quickly dispersed.

Additional reporting by Eric Lenkowitz

larry.celona@nypost.com