Anne Arundel : Annapolis

IDs released in fatal police shooting

Advertisement

Annapolis police identified yesterday the officer who was injured and the city man who was killed in a shootout during a drug raid Friday.

Richard C. Stern, 25, whose last known address was on Heritage Court, opened fire on the eight police officers who burst into his girlfriend's apartment with a warrant for suspicion of drug dealing, officials said.

Advertisement

Officer David Stokes, 29, a 4 1/2 -year veteran, led the raid with a protective shield that Stern fired upon three times, police said. Three other bullets struck the protective vest covering his torso, his right thigh and his holster, said Officer Kevin Freeman, a police spokesman.

It wasn't clear how many times officers shot Stern, who was pronounced dead at the scene. Police said they seized 9 grams of suspected crack cocaine from the apartment in the 1000 block of E. Madison St. in the Harbour House public housing complex.

Stern had been wanted for a probation violation stemming from a 1999 armed robbery conviction. He was 17 when he was sentenced in Anne Arundel County court to a year in jail and five years of probation, including two court-ordered stays in residential drug treatment programs. He violated his probation in 2004 and again in July, when a warrant for his arrest was issued, according to court records.

Stokes was flown by state police helicopter to Maryland Shock Trauma Center, where he was treated and released Friday night, Freeman said.

Doug Donovan

Baltimore

: Homicide

Northwest man identified as victim

Advertisement

A man fatally shot Friday afternoon in Northwest Baltimore has been identified.

About 4:30 p.m., Herbert Lemon, 31, of 3000 Rosalind Ave. was found lying in the street with multiple gunshot wounds to his abdomen and left leg, police spokesman Donny Moses said. Lemon was taken to Sinai Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Witnesses reported hearing multiple shots and saw a black four-door sedan with dark-tinted windows, possibly a Crown Victoria, leaving the scene at high speed. Police have no suspects, Moses said.

Allison Connolly

Prince George's

: Public health

Advertisement

Parents line up to prove vaccinations

Scores of grumbling parents facing a threat of jail lined up at a courthouse yesterday to either prove that their school-age kids already had their required vaccinations or see that the youngsters submitted to the needle.

The get-tough policy in Prince George's County was one of the strongest efforts made by any U.S. school system to ensure its youngsters receive their required immunizations.

Two months into the school year, school officials realized that more than 2,000 students in the county still didn't have the vaccinations they were supposed to have before attending class.

So Circuit Judge C. Philip Nichols ordered parents in a letter to appear at the courthouse yesterday and either get their children vaccinated on the spot or risk up to 10 days in jail. They could also provide proof of vaccination or an explanation of why their kids didn't have them.

"I could be home asleep. My son had his shots," said Veinell Dickens of Upper Marlboro, who blamed a paperwork problem.

Advertisement

School officials deemed the court action a success. School system spokesman John White said the number of children lacking vaccinations dropped from 2,300 at the time the judge sent the letter to about 1,100 Friday.

After yesterday's session, 172 more students were brought into compliance, including 101 students who received vaccinations at the courthouse and 71 whose records were updated.

Any children who still lack immunizations could be expelled. Their parents could then be brought up on truancy charges.

Associated Press