Anthony Edward Beaty

Anthony Edward Beaty

Newschannel 6 has new information on the officer-involved shooting that happened Sunday at the Taft Haus Apartments.

Police are identifying the officer and the suspect.

21-year-old Anthony Beaty was booked in the Wichita County Jail Monday morning on one charge of aggravated assault and one charge of aggravated assault on a peace officer.

Wichita Falls police say Officer Marc Schwartz shot him on Sunday at the Taft Haus Apartments when Beaty lunged at the officer with a weapon.

The incident unfolded when First Responders went to the complex on a report of difficulty breathing. Wichita Falls Police tell Newschannel 6 a woman who had been stabbed by Beaty called 911.

When responders arrived they heard what they believed to be a disturbance coming from inside that apartment. They requested police.

First responders knocked on the door and asked Beaty if he called 911. He told them he hadn't, but WFFD personnel saw a woman whose close were covered in blood. They were able to get the woman and a baby out of the apartment. The woman was taken to United Regional. She had been stabbed three times. The child was not hurt.

That's when the first officer arrived at the scene. Officer Schwartz said he told Beaty to drop his weapon multiple times. Beaty was carrying a large knife. Police say that's when Beaty charged at the officer.

Officer Schwartz opened fire, shooting Beaty in the chest, twice.

Beaty was treated at United Regional Hospital.

Beaty was released from the hospital and booked into the Wichita County Jail on Monday.

The child removed from the apartment is in the custody of Child Protective Services.

Officer Schwartz was not hurt. He's been with the Wichita Falls police force since November 2007.

Police say when he returns from his scheduled days off, Officer Schwartz will be on desk duty, pending the outcome of an investigation and possible counseling.

Police say there's a criminal investigation as well as an internal investigation. Officers say the case will be taken to the D.A. and also go before a grand jury.

The last time there was an officer involved shooting with the WFPD was in 2007.

Wichita Falls Police Officers were cleared by a Grand Jury in the shooting death of Juventino Maldonado Suarez. The Officers had come under fire while investigating a shots fired call in the early morning hours of November 18, 2007. Suarez wounded one of the Officers before he was shot.

Officers had been dispatched to the 800 block of Clay when neighbors reported hearing several gunshots. As they approached on foot, Suarez began firing at the Officers. Officers returned fire and Suarez died at the scene.