By Carolyn Gaeta

(LOUISVILLE, January 3rd, 2003, 11 a.m.) -- Family members of 18-year-old Clifford Lewis -- an unarmed black man killed by police two years ago -- said they hope to send send a message to city leaders. Thursday afternoon they filed a lawsuit against Louisville police for the wrongful death of the teen. Carolyn Gaeta has the details.

The suit filed Thursday contends that Clifford D. Lewis' death was caused by police negligence.

Detective Johann Steimle fired 13 shots at Lewis on Jan. 9, 2001. The first shots were fired when Lewis backed a van into another officer, and others seconds later, when Lewis reached into his waistband after he was ordered to show his hands, police said.

The suit filed by Patricia Lewis contends he was hit seven times, "four times in the back" and three times in the chest and chin "to ensure his death as he lay wounded."

Two years after his death, Patricia Lewis is suing the Louisville Police Department for shooting and killing her son. She says she is doing it because "I want the public -- the world, really -- to know what happened."

On January 9th, 2001, Officer Johann Steimle fired 13 shots at the minivan Lewis was driving. An internal investigation later cleared the officer of any wrong doing. Investigators say Lewis pinned an officer in between two cars and then accelerated. It was later found that Clifford wasn't carrying any weapons, but police say his car was a weapon in that situation.

Jan Waddell, the family's attorney, calls officer Steimle's actions "negligent and grossly careless." The lawsuit also says Steimle performed "with malice and reckless disregard for the safety of Mr. Lewis, resulting in his death."

"We are asking for compensatory and punitive damages," Waddel says. "But what we really want is to stop the senseless shooting of unarmed black children."

Patricia says the recent police shooting of James Taylor rekindled bad memories of what her family has endured. And that's why she's seeking closure. She says she also wants to clear her son's name. Her lawyer says there's one way to do that.

"The only way we have to force them to change is punitively," Waddel says. "Yes, for money. Hit them in the pocketbook -- then the change will occur."

The Louisville Police Department does not comment on pending litigation. Once the city's attorney receives a copy of the lawsuit, they'll decide if a deposition is in order.

Claims made in filing a lawsuit give only one side of the case.

Steimle, who was 30 and a seven-year veteran of the force at the time, was suspended with pay after the shooting but was reinstated after the grand jury returned no indictment against him.

Lewis is one of five black men fatally shot by Louisville police officers since 2000.

Online Reporter: Carolyn Gaeta