The purported Bronx arms dealer shot dead by a federal agent was a drug-addled scam artist who had concocted another shady way to make money, his relatives and law enforcement sources said Wednesday.

Santos Mulero, 47, was hawking a handmade, inoperable grenade when he was shot by a Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, Tobacco and Explosives agent Tuesday, law enforcement sources said.

Advertisement

"He wanted to make a fast buck and thought this was an easy, painless way to do it," a source said. "He wouldn't get hurt, but could get some easy money.

"Not the case this time."

Advertisement

Mulero, who served two prison stints for stealing property, was described by relatives as a troubled man who loved his six children and three grandchildren.

"He was a user of drugs, but he would never harm anyone," his sister, Enid Mulero, 50, said from the family's E. 161st St. apartment in Mott Haven.

She said her brother began abusing drugs severely 15 years ago after his 4-year-old son fell out an apartment window and died.

Santos Mulero found himself in the middle of a Joint Firearms Task Force sting on Tuesday after authorities heard he was trying to sell four grenades, law enforcement sources said.

The task force of city cops and ATF agents wired a confidential informant who set up a meeting with Mulero on E.136th St. to discuss the sale of a grenade, a source said.

The two were together in a blue Volvo sedan when cops listening to the conversation through the wire heard Mulero say he had a grenade and was going to pull the pin if he was being set up, the source said.

A seven-year veteran of the ATF and an NYPD detective quickly approached the car in a bid to get the grenade off the street. Mulero apparently tried to speed off, dragging the agent from the car. The agent fired once, shooting Mulero in the head, the source said.

Only after the shooting did authorities realize the grenade was inert, the source said.

Advertisement

The fatal shooting was being investigated by the NYPD, Bronx district attorney, U.S. attorney and a special ATF shooting review team based in Washington.

Cops searched several locations after the shooting to determine if Mulero had stashed grenades elsewhere. But none was found, the sources said.

"The police kills many people," fumed Mulero's inconsolable mom, Ana Santiago, 76, her face ashen, and shaking back and forth. "A piece of my heart is dead. They killed me, too."

mwhite@nydailynews.com