Nancy Flores keeps her little brother's things just where he left them more than two years ago.



Michael Flores' clothes hang in the closet, his school basketball trophies sit on the shelf, his union carpenter's tools remain untouched, artifacts of a life of just 22 years.



"I haven't touched his stuff," Nancy Flores told me at lunch Wednesday. "It's all still there exactly where he left it. It's something to remember he was there. I haven't been able to move them."



If you've lost someone you love, you know what that's about. If she put his things away, she'd have to acknowledge that he's gone. But first, Nancy and her sister Blanca had something to do.



They lobbied politicians, prosecutors, the media. They focused their energies on something other than mourning. They focused on justice.



And on Tuesday, Cook County Judge Thomas Gainer gave out justice. But not for Michael. Instead, justice smiled on Chicago police Officer John Ardelean.



At 3 a.m. on Thanksgiving 2007, Ardelean's car collided with another vehicle at Damen and Oakdale avenues, in Ardelean's Belmont Police District. Killed were Michael Flores and his friend Erick Lagunas, 21.



Before the crash, Ardelean had spent hours in a River North bar, the Martini Ranch. According to the bartender at the preliminary hearing, Ardelean drank two beers, a rum and coke and a shot of tequila. There were several other shots, but the bartender said they were plain shots of water.



On Wednesday, police Superintendent Jody Weis didn't have much to say about Judge Gainer's decision.



"I mean, courts rule," Weis said. "I may not agree with it, but it really doesn't matter what I think about it."



More often than not, I stand up for cops in this city. They have an impossible job. Even when they do it well, they're often thrown under the bus by the politicians.



But this one smells, and not like shots of water. This one stinks.



Surveillance video from the Martini Ranch shows Ardelean drinking, even having at least one shot poured down his throat by a bar employee — a "shot girl" identified in a civil deposition as Kismet.



The civil attorney for the family, Dan O'Connor, said Wednesday that a subpoena of phone records shows that Ardelean never called 911 after the crash.



Instead, Ardelean's first calls were made to the cell phone of a police officer in his district, then to the bar with the water shots, O'Connor said.



The bar's owner testified in the deposition that one of the first calls Ardelean made after the crash was to the Martini Ranch. The bar's bouncer called the owner, who then called Ardelean on his cell.



"I just asked him if he was OK," recalled James Ehrig in the March 25 deposition. "He said he was OK. He sounded, you know, upset. I asked him if he needed anything. He said ‘no.'"



According to Judge Gainer's ruling, a paramedic who spent a few minutes with Ardelean decided he was sober and that he was alert enough to refuse medical treatment. Ardelean's own sergeant, who was at the scene, also saw no evidence that the officer had been drinking. Ardelean wasn't subjected to a sobriety test at the crash site.



If the driver weren't a cop, my guess is he would have been taken to the hospital and compelled to give a blood sample. The blood-alcohol content would have been measured, to determine just how strong those water shots were.



"But they didn't test him, they didn't do a thing," Nancy Flores said. "He was sitting at the station, behind a desk, not under arrest, for hours."



It wasn't until some seven hours later that Lt. John McGruder — who was the watch commander, the ranking cop on duty in the district — said he smelled alcohol on Ardelean's breath and noticed bloodshot eyes. McGruder ordered Ardelean arrested for drunken driving.



On Tuesday, McGruder was ridiculed by Gainer as "incredible" and "rambling." Gainer ruled that McGruder had no probable cause to have Ardelean arrested. Gainer's decision means the case will likely be dropped in a few weeks.



Now almost everyone has cover. They all have an out.



The Belmont District cops who said they didn't notice any smell of booze on the Belmont District cop have an out. Their noses exonerate them.



Since they didn't smell or notice anything, Judge Gainer has an out, too, especially after having ruled that their superior was "incredible."



The Cook County state's attorney's office has an out, because prosecutors can say the judge's ruling leaves them with no case.



The only one without an out is Lt. McGruder. In the weird politics of Chicago, he's cast as the bad guy.



And where does that leave Nancy Flores?



She and her sister were in the courtroom on Tuesday. They were arrested after they got in a scuffle with deputies in the hallway after the ruling. They were released without charges a few hours later.



Flores is still shaken. She only poked at her lunch. She's worn out.



"At this point, I don't know what's left. We do all the right things, and it's still a slap in the face," she said.



Now, without a criminal case to focus on, she's ready to put Michael's things away. He wasn't married. He didn't leave children behind for his sisters and parents to love. The real mourning for her little brother begins.



"You don't want to feel like those things are him. They're just material things, but that's all he left behind. They're just belongings," she said.



"Now it's time to put it in the hands of God."



jskass@tribune.com