ALOHA - A man who was killed by Washington County sheriff's deputies Saturday was involved in a domestic dispute earlier in the evening and watched sheriff's deputies help his wife and children leave his home, a sheriff's spokesman said today.

Deputies believe the man, Steve G. Stanturf, 37, began drinking and grew despondent, said sheriff's spokesman Sgt. David Thompson. After a relative called deputies and said Stanturf was armed, drunk and possibly suicidal, deputies planned to go back to the house and talk him out.

Thompson said Stanturf apparently spotted the first deputies who arrived in the neighborhood. He fired at them as they tried to set up a position a few doors from his home. Thompson said the deputies were convinced Stanturf was intentionally firing on them, and not simply shooting up the neighborhood, and shot back.

Thompson said the deputies were armed with .223 caliber AR-15 rifles, the civilian version of the military's M-16.

An autopsy on Stanturf's body was scheduled for later in today at the state Medical Examiner's Office in Portland. Thompson said the autopsy results would not be released publicly until Tuesday. Also slated to be publicly revealed, he said, are the names of the two deputies who shot Stanturf.

The incident began at about 9:05 p.m. Saturday when two other deputies were called to Stanturf's home at in the 19900 block of S.W. Stokesay Lane. Thompson said the call was listed as a "domestic dispute," but added that the deputies who arrived at the home "determined there was no crime, no assault and no threats. They stood by while his wife and children left the house."

Thompson said that at about 11:05 p.m., deputies received a call from one of Stanturf's family members. "They asked us to check on him," Thompson said, "and said he was drunk and suicidal."

When deputies arrived, Thompson said a shot was fired at them through an upstairs window of Stanturf's home, then Stanturf came outside and shot at them again.

Thompson said that having deputies stationed away from the house is standard procedure. "The plan is to get cover from a long distance," he said. "We place a couple people with rifles at a longer distance because we knew there were guns in the house.

"Basically, what we do is cover the house, then get someone to call and get them help."

After shots were exchanged, Stanturf went inside the house, Thompson said. After several unsuccessful attempts to contact Stanturf, deputies went inside the home and found his body. Thompson said deputies also found evidence that Stanturf had been drinking and had a number of firearms - rifles, handguns, and a shotgun -

throughout the home.

"It appeared he was ready to have a gunfight, basically," Thompson said.

Thompson said Stanturf shot at deputies with a handgun and a .25-35 caliber rifle. A .25-35 is a comparatively unusual caliber. It was a popular rifle in the 1890s, and revived recently by sportsmen.

The deputies involved in the shooting were put on paid leave. The results of the crime-team investigation will be sent to the district attorney for review.

Thompson said the sheriff's office has also started an internal investigation "to determine if there was anything else we could have done to avoid it, any tools we can use to help the deputies to avoid this situation."

Stanturf's home, with tan siding and rust-red trim, is among a neighborhood of houses less than 10 years old in a working-class neighborhood about a half-mile south of Tualatin Valley Highway. The plain, clean yard leads up to an entryway with two birdhouses on the porch. The front door mat lists the unalienable rights of man as outlined in the Declaration of Independence, "Life ... Liberty ... and happiness." What looks like a bullet hole is in the siding next to the front door.

Riki Fugere, who has lived three houses from Stanturf since June, said the shooting hasn't shaken her belief that the area is safe.

"Nothing really happens in this neighborhood," Fugere said. "The only excitement is kids running in the yards."

Fugere said she slept through the shootout. But neighbors told her there was a bullet hole in the house across the street from Stanturf.



- John Snell;

johnsnell@news.oregonian.com

- David R. Anderson;

davidanderson@news.oregonian.com