The rape suspect who got into a gun battle with Aurora police Chief Seth Riewaldt died at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday at MetroHealth Medical Center with a bullet lodged in his brain.

The Cuyahoga County Coroner's office will perform an autopsy today.

Portage County court records show that Jian Wei Chen, 51, was accused of rape on Nov. 28.

He was accused of domestic violence in December, 2006. The charge was dismissed in March. His wife filed for divorce in February and received a restraining order that barred him from being near her. The divorce was not yet finalized; his wife requested a postponement a month ago.

Posted Nov. 29: Gunfire erupted on normally quiet Glenallen Avenue Thursday morning when Aurora Police Chief Seth Riewaldt shot a rape suspect after he turned a gun on the officer.

Jian Wei Chen, 51, was in critical condition Thursday night at MetroHealth Medical Center. He was shot once in the face after he pulled a gun and Riewaldt struggled with him, Aurora Mayor Lynn McGill said.

Riewaldt was not injured and has been placed on paid leave, which is standard practice in police shootings.

Riewaldt had notified Solon police that his department was in obtaining a search warrant to carry out a felony arrest on Glenallen.

Around 10:30 a.m., Chen emerged from the house and got into a car, McGill said. Riewaldt, who was in an unmarked car but dressed in his uniformed, blocked the driveway with his car.



McGill said Riewaldt approached Chen's car asked him to put his hands where they could be seen. Chen reached into his pocket and pulled a gun and the men struggled.

During the struggle, Chen fired one or two shots, and Riewaldt fired, McGill said.

Chen recently moved back to the house after renting it out for several years, neighbors said.

Charlotte Giardino, who lives a few doors down, was raking leaves when she heard the burst of gunfire.

"I figured there was a shooting and I ran in the house and called 9-1-1," she said.

Giardino and her husband, Donald, don't see the unusual event as a threat to the neighborhood. "There is a misconception of suburbs being a perfect place," she said.

McGill said it's the first time any of his officers were involved in a shooting in the last 20 years.

One older resident pointed out that crime can occur anywhere, noting that a nearby convenience store has been robbed three or four times in recent years.

No one seems to have known Chen very well, interacting only with an occasional "hello."

He was married before moving away about seven years ago, but had come back, alone, within in the last couple of months, one neighbor said.