Associated Press

EL DORADO, Kan. — A body found in Kansas appears to be that of a missing college student who led a secret life as an Internet porn star, police said Thursday.

Authorities said the preliminary physical description of the body found about 50 miles east of El Dorado matches that of missing college student Emily Sander. Investigators refused to give details about the state of the body or how it was found.

Police Chief Tom Boren said the cause of death was not yet known. An autopsy is planned.

Sander, 18, was last seen leaving an El Dorado bar Friday with a man who has been the focus of a nationwide search since police found large quantities of blood in a Kansas motel room where he was staying.

Prior to finding the body, investigators said they had not found a link between Sander and her activities as an online porn star named Zoey Zane. But publicity about her explicit photos brought a flood of tips, many of them false leads.

"No tips were generated from it," Boren said.

Sander, who attended Butler Community College, left the bar with Israel Mireles, 24. Authorities are looking for him and his 16-year-old pregnant girlfriend.

The rental car Mireles was driving was found abandoned Tuesday in Vernon, Texas, where he has relatives. Investigators interviewed family members and planned to bring the vehicle back to Kansas for processing.

"We feel they know where he is at, but they haven’t shared that with us," Boren said.

On Thursday, searchers on foot and all-terrain vehicles were checking the tall grass along each side of Highway 54 near Neal, Kan., as they traced the route Mireles may have taken Saturday on the way to Baxter Springs to pick up his girlfriend.

So far searches using dogs, planes, underwater equipment and divers at the Walnut River dam have yielded no new evidence.

"We have about exhausted a lot of the resources we have until we can focus on a particular area," Boren said.

Dozens of people gathered Wednesday in El Dorado for a candlelight vigil for Sander. The turnout moved her grandfather, Clement Sander, who said Emily Sander’s disappearance shows tragedy can suddenly strike anyone.

"All I can say to you young folks out there is be careful," he said. "It is a cruel world."