Remembered for her friendly and bubbly personality, 19 year-old Angela Chung died in a car accident at 2:30 a.m. on Sunday, December 2.

Making a left turn on Las Tunas Drive and Rosemead Boulevard, Chung was struck by a incoming car that had run a red light.

Chung was directly hit from the impact, whose Lexus also hit two other cars, injuring them as well. Chung was immediately admitted into the Los Angeles County-USC Medical Center in critical condition. She passed away about two hours later.

The incoming car was street racing and trying to escape an officer who was trying to pull her over. The driver is suspected to be a 17 year-old female resident of Rosemead. The suspect will face four felony and a vehicular manslaughter charges.

Chung was a 2006 Temple City High School graduate and attended Woodbury University. She held a part time job at the Westfield Santa Anita Mall as a concierge. Chung was always involved in charities and often seen lending a helping hand; many have been affected by her sudden death.

“We were both members of the swim team,” said Junior Sally Lu. “[I am ] shocked because before she graduated, she told me to invite her to my graduation. But now, well she’s gone.”

Even those who didn’t know Chung have been affected by her death, whether they saw her in the hallways or in Key Club meetings. In some sort of way, Chung’s death has left an imprint on many lives.

“I felt really bad for her, that she was caught into an accident and that she was innocent, ” said Senior Sharon Ouyang who only saw Chung at Key Club meetings. “It’s kind of scared me to the point that I don’t want to be driving very late at night or taking night classes next year when I’m in college.”

A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, December 11th at Rose Hills- Skyrose Chapel from 9 A.M. until 11 A.M. in honor of Chung.

A scholarship has also been created in memory of Angela Chung. The Angela Chung Memorial Scholarship will be given each year to a student studying human resources in the school of business at Woodbury University.

A donation to the Chung scholarship fund can be made via check payable to Angela Chung Memorial Fund, c/o Staci Chung, P.O. Box 1016, Temple City, CA, 91780. For additional information, please call Howard Fitzgerald at 818-252-5207.

This article was written by Margaret Thi. It was published in the December 12th, 2007 issue of the Temple City Voice.