LANSING | With his children watching, an Illinois Department of Corrections employee shot his wife to death during a custody exchange Wednesday night before he shot himself in the head.

Herbert B. Poleate Jr., 52, of Chicago, argued with Janet P. Poleate, 47, of Calumet City, during the exchange of the children at the Firestone Tire & Service Centers, 17001 Torrence Ave., said Lansing Lt. Pete Grutzius.

The children were not physically hurt.

"Unfortunately, they witnessed the entire event," Grutzius said.

Herbert Poleate pulled a .357 revolver and shot his estranged wife at least once in the head while she was in her car, Grutzius said.

Janet Poleate drove from the lot and across busy Torrence Avenue before striking a pole and a Jeep sport utility vehicle about 450 feet away in a strip mall parking lot, which houses an Oberweis Dairy store.

Both were pronounced dead on the scene and taken to the Cook County medical examiner's office for autopsies, police said.

Police found the gun in Herbert Poleate's vehicle.

The weapon did not belong to the Department of Corrections inventory, said Dede Short, a Department of Corrections spokeswoman.

Herbert Poleate worked as a corrections officer at the Stateville Correctional Center in Joliet, Short said. She was unable to say how long he was employed.

The children were taken to the Lansing Police Department for grief counseling and to be reunited with family, police said.

An employee of a business near the Torrence Avenue crime scene said he saw Janet Poleate drive her vehicle across over the curb, across the busy road and stop in the strip mall parking lot.

"She must have been in shock still," he said.

No other cars were hit on Torrence.

"Somehow she made it through 5 o'clock traffic along Torrence Avenue without hitting anyone," Grutzius said,

An business clerk on the west side of Torrence Avenue heard the crash and ran out to the car with another man to check on Janet Poleate. She then called 911.

"The airbags had deployed, and she was sprawled across the front seat," said the employee, who asked for anonymity. "It was pretty sad."