The man who committed suicide after a 15-hour standoff with Fairview Heights Police has been identified as Shawn M. Dill, 32, of Fairview Heights.

The standoff began on Dec. 23 when police responded to a call from Dill's girlfriend, who was concerned about his well being.

When they arrived at Dill's home at 73 Wilshire, they found him alone and barricaded in the dwelling.

Nearby homes were evacuated for precautionary reasons.

The standoff continued until police found him dead at 12:30 a.m. on Dec. 24, the victim of a self-inflicted gunshot.

Throughout much of the standoff, police officers were in contact with Dill via a cell phone.

"The last actual conversation we had with him was around 2:30 p.m.," said Lt. Nick Gailius of the Fairview Heights Police Department. "Tactical officers on the scene reported seeing movement in the home around 5:30 p.m. As for when he actually took his life, we're not certain. Nobody heard any gunshots.

"In situation like that, we try to resolve things as peaceably as possible. We move very slowly and do everything possible to protect the officers involved.

"We feel badly for the family of the victim and our sympathies go out to them.," Gailius said.

Gailius said no note was found and he's not sure why Dill committed suicide.

"It could have been a number of things," said Gailius. "I heard that he had a ex-wife that recently died. He was also on the state of Illinois' sex offenders list and there was warrant out on him for a parole violation."

The suicide, along with an interrupted Christmas Day burglary, made it a busy long weekend for the Fairview Heights Police Force.

At 3:03 a.m. on Christmas Day, Fairview Heights police officers stopped a burglary in progress at 639 Ember Crest Drive where a construction trailer and a van had been forcibly entered.

Two suspects were taken into custody at the scene, while two others fled on foot and were apprehended a few minutes later with the assistance of the O'Fallon Police Department.

On Dec. 26, the St. Clair County States Attorney's office charged Alexander A. Spencer, 20, and Joshua R. Klinger, 18, with two counts of burglary. Bond was set at $80,000 and $40,000 for Spencer and Klinger, respectively.

Two additional suspects were released pending investigation.