A Chicago police officer shot and killed a 51-year-old man early Friday morning on the West Side, according to the head of the agency that investigates shootings involving police.

Officers responded to a call for assistance in the 4200 block of West Ogden Avenue in the Lawndale neighborhood, said Ilana Rosenzweig, chief administrator of the Independent Police Review Authority.

Advertisement

The dead man was identified as Ted Hernandez, who lived in an apartment building in that block, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

An autopsy is scheduled for Saturday.

Advertisement

Rosenzweig said the agency is investigating the shooting, which she was notified of about 4 a.m.

Chicago police officials confirmed the shooting, but declined to comment further.

Any questions about the investigation are being handled by the review authority, said Monique Bond, Chicago police spokeswoman.

Hernandez lived in a second-story apartment with his longtime girlfriend and his brother, said landlord Rick Page.

"He was a hardworking man," Page said. "I had no problems. They paid their rent on time and they were unbelievably clean. What else could I ask for?"

Page said Hernandez worked a maintenance job, and that the three had been living in the apartment for six months. He said the couple moved from the Near North Side.

Relatives declined to comment Friday.

Rosenzweig said numerous officers responded to a call for police assistance at the location and that one officer fired shots.

Advertisement

Officials are interviewing witnesses and gathering evidence, Rosenzweig said. She said Hernandez was found on the "roof of a structure next to a home," but she could not elaborate.

"Precisely where everyone was when the shooting occurred is still under investigation, and it would be premature to comment on it," Rosenzweig said.

Hernandez's apartment was one of two above an empty commercial building with a one-story garage behind it. His apartment appeared to have access to the garage roof by climbing over a 3-foot-tall wall on the back porch.

---------

mowen@tribune.com

dpblake@tribune.com