A man died late Wednesday after being Tasered by a Mobile County deputy when the man became violent with an ambulance crew that was taking him to a hospital for treatment of what appeared to be a drug overdose, authorities said.

Brandon Smiley, 27, of Wilmer had a history of drug and other arrests, authorities said.

"It was reported to (ambulance) personnel and deputies on scene that Smiley had been on a three-day methamphetamine binge," Kate Johnson, a Mobile County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman, said in a news release.

An investigator with the Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences office in Mobile said Thursday that the cause of Smiley's death and the manner of his death had not been determined. She said the results of toxicology tests would not be available for quite a while.

Tasers are a type of electrical stun guns that shoot 50,000 volts of electricity through a person's body, overriding the central nervous system and immobilizing the suspect.

Mobile County Sheriff Sam Cochran said Thursday that, nationwide, people have been known to die after being Tasered, pepper sprayed or handcuffed by law enforcement officers.

However, Cochran said, those deaths usually result from drug use and or "excited delirium" and not from being Tasered, sprayed or cuffed.

"I'm not saying for sure that this is what happened, but that is what it appears in this case," the sheriff said.

In a news release, he said: "This is an unfortunate event for all those involved. Based on what we know at this time, we believe the deputy on scene used the appropriate level of force and in doing so was able to ensure the safety of those around him."

Johnson said the Sheriff's Office has been using Tasers for four years without any deaths being caused by them.

Johnson said a privately owned ambulance with two crew members and Mobile County deputies were summoned to a home on Findley Road in Wilmer at 8:40 p.m. Wednesday.

The caller told deputies that Smiley was "behaving erratically and hallucinating after a three-day methamphetamine binge," Johnson said.

While on the way to a hospital, the ambulance crew radioed for assistance from other deputies when Smiley reportedly became combative, Johnson said. The ambulance pulled over at Moffett and Snow roads in northwest Mobile County, where the Tasing occurred, she said.

The deputy who used the Taser reported that Smiley "forced his way into the driver's compartment of the ambulance, pinning the driver against the driver's side door," Johnson said.

The ambulance driver and attendant suffered minor injuries, she said.

Johnson said Smiley was described as "flailing his arms, acting in a state of hysteria."

Johnson said the deputy told Smiley to calm down before the deputy Tasered and handcuffed him.

Smiley stopped breathing and passed out, and an emergency helicopter was summoned to the scene, Johnson said. Smiley was airlifted to Providence Hospital in west Mobile, where he was pronounced dead, she said.

Mobile County court records show that on Dec. 26, Smiley was arrested and charged with first-degree theft of property.

In July 2007, he was arrested and charged with third-degree domestic violence/harassment, the records show.

Members of Smiley's family could not be reached for comment Thursday.

But building contractor Spence Tillman said Thursday that he had known Smiley all of the man's life and the news of his death "shocked the hell out of me."

Tillman said Smiley had worked for him from 2001 to 2003 and had lived with him during that time.

"He was a good guy and would do anything for you," Tillman said.

Smiley's brother, Adam Trey Smiley, 20, was killed in a pickup truck crash in August 2005, according to Alabama State Troopers.