The man shot dead by police in West Seattle late Saturday night had been on the lam for three years for the rape of a 15-year-old girl in Southern California, and a $1 million warrant had been issued for his arrest.

Steven Covyeow, 39, escaped from the Adelanto police station in 1997 by slipping out of handcuffs and out a back door after his arrest on the rape charge, said Adelanto police Lt. Scott Burnell. Adelanto is northeast of Los Angeles.

"I've been looking for this man a long time," Burnell said yesterday. "We had him in custody, but he escaped."

Covyeow was on parole for a robbery conviction when he was accused by the teenage girl of rape.

His mother said yesterday she didn't know where her son was until the King County Medical Examiner's Office called to tell her he was dead.

"Some people don't want authorities to know where they are," Rosie Benjamin said yesterday.

She said her son had some history of drug use and run-ins with the law, but she wouldn't be specific.

She also said he didn't rape anyone. Now she wishes he had stayed in California and faced the rape charge.

"He should have gone to court and to jail. Then this wouldn't have happened. ... He wouldn't have been killed," Benjamin said. "He didn't kill anybody. He didn't hurt anybody."

Covyeow died about 11:30 p.m. Saturday in West Seattle after holding a 20-year-old girlfriend against her will for four hours in a West Seattle apartment. The woman escaped and called police.

Arriving officers found Covyeow outside the apartment. He had a knife in one hand and a gun in the other. When he ran away, officers followed. Covyeow turned and fired twice, wounding a pursuing police dog. Seattle officers returned fire, killing Covyeow.

The woman was treated for cuts and bruises. The officers have been put on administrative duty while the shooting is investigated, police said. The police dog is recovering from the gunshot wound.

In 1997, Covyeow was busted and charged in San Bernadino County with lewd conduct with a child, in this case, a 15-year-old girlfriend. He was in the booking room when he somehow got free and ran out an unlocked door, Burnell said.

Burnell said he didn't know how Covyeow got out of the cuffs, but Covyeow was familiar enough with the police station to know which doors were locked and which weren't. A $1 million warrant was issued, and police had been looking ever since.

"Well, none of that matters, now," Burnell said.

Covyeow has two children, ages 10 and 13, by two women in California, his mother said.

She said she hasn't seen him since he fled town three years ago.

"I always told him to be careful," she said. "He had a bit of a temper, though."

She said her son was a likable guy.

"But he messed up."