An early morning police chase through St. Charles Wednesday ended when an officer shot and killed one of two men suspected of robbing a convenience store and threatening police.

Police identified the dead man as William D. Steele, 28, of the 700 block of Ponce Ave. in St. Louis.

Steele and Jack Field, 21, of the 2400 block of Sundance in O'Fallon, and William D. Steele, 28, of the 700 block of Ponce Ave. in St. Louis, are suspected of robbing the Convenient Food Mart in the 2700 block of Droste Road early Wednesday, said Sgt. Donovan Kenton, public information officer for the St. Charles Police Department.

The clerk at the food mart pressed an alarm button and called police at 12:40 a.m. after the suspects left, he said.

St. Charles police officers saw the suspects driving on Droste Road a few blocks from the convenience store and tried to stop the vehicle. The car, driven by Steele, eventually spun out of control and ran into a house in the Frenchtown neighborhood in northern St. Charles.

Police took Field into custody at the crash scene. Steele fled the scene on foot and entered a house down the street from the crash site in an attempt to avoid capture, Kenton said.

But when someone in the house confronted Steele, he left and ran northbound up an alley. Officers stopped him at Third and Tecumseh streets.

"When confronted, he pointed a handgun at officers, at which time one of our officers fired, striking the suspect," Kenton said.

Steele was taken to a local medical facility he was pronounced dead.

The officer who shot Steele is a 15-year veteran of the police department and has been placed on administrative leave while the incident is investigated.

Kenton said the officer appeared to have followed departmental guidelines. He said the department wanted to express condolences to Steele's family for "loss of a loved one."

"It's a very traumatic time for everybody involved in this incident," he said. "You have a dead suspect who is dead due to his criminal behavior. That's still a tragic event for the deceased's family. The officer involved, that is a tragic event, they just took someone's life."

Field was charged with first-degree robbery, armed criminal action and felony murder - the latter because of his alleged involvement in the felony that led to Steele's death. Cash-only bond was set at $500,000.

Felony murder and first-degree robbery are class A felonies punishable by 10 years to life in prison. Armed criminal action carries a punishment of three or more years in prison.

To comment, visit suburbanjournals.stltoday.com.