STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. -- An emotionally disturbed man running naked through the streets of Tompkinsville died Friday night after being subdued by cops and sent to the hospital.

Daniel Hanrahan, 44, of Darnell Lane in Charleston, was pronounced dead at 10:51 p.m. at Richmond University Medical Center, West Brighton.

Police and emergency medical service (EMS) personnel first encountered Hanrahan at about 9:46 p.m., near the intersection of Westervelt Avenue and Brook Street, down the block from the Sanitation garage.

While attempting to place Hanrahan in the ambulance, he became physically violent, police said.

After several minutes of struggling with the 6-feet tall, 300-pound man, officers were finally able to subdue Hanrahan.

Neighbors said they witnessed cops zap Hanrahan with what they believed to be a Taser gun, which sends an electric shock through a person temporarily disrupting their muscle functions.

"He was a big guy. He was handcuffed behind his back and had no clothes on," said a resident who identified herself only as Elaina, 55. Two blue EMS gloves and a pair of blue underwear were in the curb just down from her home. The woman noted that emergency workers also appeared to perform CPR on Hanrahan.

While tussling with Hanrahan, two officers sustained leg and hand injuries, police said.

The city medical examiner will determine the cause of Hanrahan's death, police said.

Hanrahan lived with his parents, Elaine and Daniel Hanrahan Sr., as well as his sister, Karen, and her husband, Edward Rossi, according to public records.

The family declined to comment yesterday when encountered in front of the home and contacted later in the day via phone.

Police said Hanrahan had 16 previous arrests for a variety of crimes, including drug possession.

Advance records show that Hanrahan was arrested Nov. 4, 1997, after being identified as the suspect wanted for repeatedly burglarizing the collection box at St. Clare's R.C. Church in Great Kills, the community where he previously lived.

Hanrahan was caught carrying a wire tool that he allegedly used to break into the poor box when he was captured. The outcome of the case was not immediately known yesterday.

Doug Auer covers police and fire news for the Advance. He may be reached at auer@siadvance.com.