GREENSBORO — Although more details emerged Friday about a fatal police shooting Wednesday night, the sister of the slain suspect said she still has questions about what happened.

Emile Baptist Williams, 39, of Raleigh, was identified by Greensboro police as the man they say stole diamond rings from a store, led police on a high-speed chase, wrecked a car and then fought with off-duty Officer William Symmes. Symmes killed Williams with a gunshot to the neck.

Details from the night came through an accident report from the Greensboro Police Department and a search warrant filed in Guilford County district court.

The chase began about 7:30 p.m. after Williams snatched and ran with two diamond rings worth $36,200 from Helzberg Diamonds at Four Seasons Town Centre, the warrant said.

He headed east on Interstate 40 in a black Honda Accord. Symmes followed in his green police-issued unmarked SUV while reporting the chase to dispatchers.

After reaching speeds up to 100 mph, Williams lost control on a ramp to Interstate 85 and spun into a guardrail in the median, the accident report said. The car then hit the SUV.

At that point, the warrant said, the two men had a “physical altercation.” Williams then tried drive away in Symmes’ SUV while the officer clung to the cruiser and was dragged a short distance.

“Officer Symmes, apparently unable to stop the suspect from dragging him down the highway, drew his duty firearm and shot the suspect once in the neck-head area,” the warrant said.

Upon hearing that, Williams’ sister, Clariennette Williams, had questions.

“I looked at the car,” she said, referring to photos on news-record.com, “and how ... did he get out of it? And if so, what kind of state of mind could he have been in to have been going 100 miles per hour, to have hit it that hard?”

She also wondered if her brother was armed.

“Nobody knows nothing and until just now I couldn’t tell you what kind of shots he had,” the sister said, hearing that Williams was shot in the neck area.

After Symmes shot Williams, the SUV rolled to a stop along an I-85 embankment.

“The officer has a right to defend himself or a third party,” said Lt. Hope Newkirk, spokeswoman for Greensboro police.

The State Bureau of Investigation is investigating the shooting and will report to the Guilford County District Attorney. An SBI spokesperson said Thursday that the agency would not comment .

Greensboro police are investigating the larceny and accident and are conducting an administrative investigation on the chase.

The 2002 Honda that Williams drove was stolen in Raleigh in February 2007, the warrant said. The document listed two diamond rings, one valued at $14,400, and another at $21,800, as items of interest in the search of the Honda.

No rings were found in the search, but authorities seized three different North Carolina license plates, a ball cap and a gray hooded sweatshirt.

Williams’ family was notified of his death Thursday. Few other details are available, his sister said.

“And that’s why I’m so shocked right now,” she said, “how did all this happen and what was this all about?”

She said that Williams was a barber and the youngest of 11 children.

“He always had a fascination with cutting hair,” she said about her brother, “He used to cut my son’s hair and everybody else’s sons’ hair.”

Williams and his siblings grew up near Rocky Mount, she said, but now the family is scattered across the country and their parents have passed. Clariennette Williams lives in New York .

Emile Williams and some others stayed in North Carolina.

And while here, Williams went to prison on 10 occasions for crimes including felony robbery, larceny, speeding from police, assaulting an officer and other crimes since 1987. He’s also been on probation or parole five times.

But his sister was not aware of this.

“I’ve not been in North Carolina for many, many years and something like that, they wouldn’t tell me,” she said about her brother’s criminal involvement.

His body was sent to the N.C. Medical Examiner for autopsy. The family is still planning funeral arrangements.

Staff writers Sonja Elmquist, Jennifer Fernandez and Ryan Seals contributed to this report.

Contact Gerald Witt at

373-7008, or gerald.witt

@news-record.com