By Jim Merkel

The father of two of the three men killed after their car ran away from a patrol car said he doesn't blame police for giving chase.

"They did their jobs. They didn't do anything wrong," said Nelson Kennedy, father of Joshua Kennedy, 17, and Ryan Kennedy, 18.

The two young Kennedys, of the 6800 block of Garner Avenue in the Franz Park neighborhood, died when the white Pontiac Grand Am in which they were riding ran away from a police squad car Wednesday and struck another vehicle and a Metro Bus at Clayton and Tamm avenues around 3:30 p.m., police said.

Another passenger in the vehicle, Charles Pettus, 22, of the 5900 block of Wise Avenue in the Cheltenham neighborhood, also was killed.

Nelson Kennedy said it was the fault of his son, Joshua, the driver, for not stopping. But he questioned whether the Grand Am actually was stolen.

Police said an officer was westbound on Clayton Avenue when he performed a random computer check on the Pontiac Grand Am, which was directly in front of him. After the check revealed the vehicle was stolen, the officer activated his roof lights near the intersection of Crescent Avenue and Clayton to stop the vehicle.

The Grand Am fled westward on Clayton, police said. The office said he turned off his lights after one block, at Graham and Clayton. The Grand Am sped away for another block and collided with the other vehicle and the Metro bus.

Police said homicide detectives responded and will conduct a follow-up investigation.

A computer check of the vehicle information number of the Pontiac Grand Am revealed it was stolen, taken in a burglary on Jan. 26 in the 1200 block of South 14th Street, police said.

People in the other vehicle and the bus had minor injuries, but police wouldn't provide specifics or additional information until an investigation is complete.

Dianne Williams, a spokeswoman for the Metro, said five people were on the bus "" the operator and four passengers. One passenger reported a bumped arm, was treated at the scene and went to work. The operator had a bruised knee.

The Grand Am hit the front of the operator's side of the bus, Williams said.

Nelson Kennedy said his son Joshua had told him the Grand Am belonged to his friend's girlfriend. He said he showed police the vehicle's title but didn't know whose name was on it. The license plates apparently were stolen, he said.

"They were good kids. They made a mistake," Nelson Kennedy said.

Ryan Kennedy and Pettus worked at the Imo's pizza restaurant, 1000 Hampton Ave., not far east of the accident location, Nelson Kennedy said. They were on their way to pick up their checks, he said.

Richard Dempsey Jr., an attorney with an office near the corner of Tamm and Clayton, was talking with a client in the Acme guitar store when the accident occurred.

"I saw a light flash as the car flew by in the corner of my eye," Dempsey said. He heard the first impact and the second impact.

"I watched as it bounced off the bus," he said. It appeared to be going at highway speed, he said.

The police car arrived shortly afterward, at a slow speed.

"He was looking at a horrific scene but he went right to work. I was very impressed." Dempsey said. "(The officer) was not being a cowboy."

Near where the accident occurred, Ashley Hinman, a bartender at Felix's Restaurant, was painting in a room inside the restaurant.

"Me and the owner heard the crash," Hinman said. A crowd of five to 15 people gathered. "There were always people standing around," she said.