An Ashtabula man was killed Friday morning by SWAT officers after he pulled a gun as they tried to arrest him in connection with the killing and dismembering of a Conneaut man, police said.

Steven Anzells, 44, was shot four times, said a spokesman at the Cuyahoga County Coroner's office, which is performing the autopsy. Police believe Anzells played a role in the death and dismemberment of Cheyrone Kelley, whose body was recovered in Jefferson Township Friday, Conneaut Police Chief Jon Arcaro said.

A neighbor who heard shots outside her porch said she saw about a dozen SWAT members near Anzells' property about 6 a.m.

"We saw the SWAT team behind our house and we thought it was a drug bust," neighbor Kristen Adkins said. "Then we heard the girls screaming, 'Let me see my Dad.'"

Anzells' wife and two teenaged girls were home when the shooting occurred, Adkins said.

SWAT officers from the Conneaut police department and the Ashtabula Sheriff's office went to the house around 5:45 a.m., Arcaro said.

Police went there after two other men confessed to killing Kelley, 31, in Conneaut. They implicated Anzells in the slaying, which took place last year, Arcaro said.

Kelley was reported missing by his family in November.

Officials at the Ashtabula County Coroner's office said they recovered a dismembered body from a remote area in Jefferson Township. Official identification will be difficult because of decomposition, officials said.

But police believe the body is Kelley based on the confessions, Arcaro said.

He refused to identify the two men arrested in Kelley's slaying but said they told police where the body was buried.

Arcaro said would not comment on how Kelley was killed. No one has been charged yet in the slaying, he said. An autopsy will be performed later this week.

Police, the sheriff and FBI received information the last few days linking the Anzells and the two other men to Kelley's murder, Arcaro said.

Adkins said Anzells lived next door since around 2002 and was not friendly. She often heard yelling coming from the house, which sits on a wooded lot in a rural part of town not far from the Pennsylvania border.

"He was not what you would call a neighborly guy," she said.

News researcher JoEllen Corrigan contributed to this story.