A Prince George's County sheriff's deputy was shot and seriously wounded early yesterday in a motel room in the Laurel area by a man who had shot a D.C. police officer in the face Friday, authorities said.

Other law enforcement officers in the motel room opened fire and killed the suspect, police said. He was identified last night by Howard County police as Aaron M. Lowry, 31, of Washington.

The sheriff's deputy, identified as Cpl. Cal Bowers, was wounded in the lower abdomen, police said. He was taken to the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore, where he was upgraded from critical to serious condition after surgery, officials said.

The D.C. police officer shot Friday, Antonio Duncan, 37, had a "significant graze wound to the face," D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier said. Duncan, a 14-year veteran of the force, was treated at a hospital and released.

The Prince George's deputy and several other members of the Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force had gone to an EconoLodge in the 9700 block of Route 1 near Laurel about 3:30 p.m. in search of the man who shot the D.C. officer. The man was also wanted on charges of attempted murder and robbery, police said.

They found Lowry in a room at the motel, Howard police said. When he shot at them, they returned fire and killed him, police said.

Howard police were on their way to assist the task force when the shooting occurred in the Laurel section of the county.

Lowry apparently came into contact with D.C. police about 1:15 p.m. Friday in the 700 block of Irving Street NE, where members of the task force had gone to serve a paternity support warrant on another man, according to a police account.

The task force members saw someone who appeared to match the description of the man they were seeking, police said. As officers approached, Lowry pulled out a gun and fired three times, grazing Duncan in the face, authorities said. They said the officers did not fire back.

The gunman ran and was last seen heading south on Eighth Street NE, Lanier said. Police officers and marshals swarmed the area, which includes Catholic University, and helicopters hovered. Lanier said she extended the shifts of some officers who would have finished their days at 3 p.m.

During the search, police said they found the man wanted in the paternity warrant and took him into custody. He was identified as Dorian M. Ray, 36, of the 600 block of Hamlin Street NE. Ray was not charged in the D.C. officer's shooting.

It is unclear how the task force identified Lowry as a suspect in the shooting of the D.C. officer or how they found him at the Laurel motel. Police did not provide details of the attempted murder and robbery warrants.

Two other males and a female were in the room where the shooting took place and were detained by Howard police, spokeswoman Jennifer Reidy-Hall said.

The task force includes members of the U.S. Marshals Service, the Prince George's sheriff's and police departments, and D.C. police.

Staff writer Martin Weil contributed to this report.