For the Democrat-Herald

CORVALLIS - Police are still piecing together why a 22-year-old motorcycle rider fled from a deputy and led him on a chase that ended with a fatal crash. The rider was later identified as Jesse Robert Smith, 22, whose last known address was Springfield.

The chase began on Highway 20 near Northeast Conifer Boulevard just before 1 a.m. Saturday, when an officer attempted to pull over a motorcyclist whom he suspected of speeding.

Through measuring skid marks, and making note of weather conditions and the placement of the fire hydrant, police may be able to answer a number of questions.

A criminal records search by the Gazette-Times produced no prior arrest record or citations for Smith in Oregon. Benton County Sheriff's Office spokesman Lt. Scott Jackson said he found no outstanding warrants listed.

The official report reads something like this:

A sheriff's deputy spotted a motorcycle traveling at a high speed headed toward Corvallis on Highway 20. The motorcycle accelerated after the deputy attempted to stop it.

"The driver turned around and started going the other way on Highway 20," Jackson said. The motorcyclist turned west off Highway 20 onto Conifer and lost control in a right curve just before Northeast Conser Drive.

A Corvallis police officer was already heading to the area to assist when the crash occurred, and he was the first to arrive at the crash site. He found Smith against a fire hydrant, apparently dead on impact.

Sheriff's office spokesman Lt. Greg Ridler estimates the chase covered fewer than five miles and ended within three minutes.

Benton County Sheriff Diana Simpson said the pursuit had barely begun when the motorcyclist crashed.

"My understanding is that the deputy was just trying to catch up with him," Simpson said.

Simpson said she asked the Corvallis Police Department to take over the investigation to avoid a conflict of interest.

Henslee said the two investigators from CPD will be assisted by an Oregon State Police trooper, all of whom are part of a multi-agency accident investigation team.

The sheriff's office has a seven-page policy regarding vehicle pursuits that includes a continuous benefit vs. risk assessment. Guidelines to consider include the danger posed to the community if the person is not immediately apprehended, and the number of pedestrians and vehicles in the path of the chase.

Simpson said the deputy used his patrol car's overhead lights and sirens, as required in a pursuit, but the chase was over before he had time to decide if he should stop following the motorcycle due to an increased danger to the public.