HILLSBORO -- The investigation into the fatal shooting of Shane Miguel Grundmeyer by Washington County sheriff's deputies on Feb. 16 may not be finished until the end of this week, if then.

Detective Ronda Lenahan of the Beaverton Police Department is leading the investigation as a member of the Washington County Major Crimes Team.

That disturbs the Grundmeyer family, said Josh Gibbs, a partner in the Portland law firm hired by the dead man's father.

"So far, only Washington County is involved," Gibbs said. "The family has a strong desire for transparency and has concerns about Washington County investigating."

Sgt. Michael O'Connell, a sheriff's detective and head of the Major Crimes Team, said he assigned a Beaverton detective to lead the investigation to avoid the perception that there could be a conflict of interest. It is standard practice for the team to investigate police shootings in the county.

Gibbs said a police agency outside the county should investigate. "We are worried about the trustworthiness of the government as far as what is going on," he said.

Gibbs also complained the Grundmeyer family was being kept in the dark about virtually all details of the shooting. "They want to know what is happening and they want to know the truth," he said.

Not knowing is hindering the grieving process, Gibbs said.

The Washington County Sheriff's Office has reported that deputies Jamison Goetz and Cade Edwards fired at Grundmeyer when he continued to ram their patrol vehicles after they boxed him into a neighbor's driveway near his Cooper Mountain home.

Lenahan said the deputies were interviewed last week, but she needed to get reports from witnesses, the Washington County Crash Analysis Reconstruction Team and others before turning everything over to the District Attorney's Office, possibly by the end of this week.

Chief Deputy District Attorney Roger Hanlon will then decide if the deputies were justified in using deadly physical force on Grundmeyer or if the case should be presented to a grand jury for possible criminal charges. That decision could take several more weeks.

In Oregon, police may use deadly physical force if their lives or the lives of others are in imminent danger.

Grundmeyer was wanted on a felony theft warrant out of Multnomah County and failed to stop when a Beaverton police officer tried to pull him over Feb. 16 in downtown Beaverton.

When he saw the officer, Grundmeyer pulled over to let his 14-year-old daughter Brittany and a 14-year-old friend out of his car. The officer stayed with the girls and radioed for help catching Grundmeyer.

A fund for Brittany Grundmeyer has been set up to take donations at any Washington Mutual.



-- Holly Danks: hollydanks@news.oregonian.com