Two veteran Burbank police officers were recovering Tuesday after being wounded during a shootout at a motel in which another man was killed, officials said.

A second man was wounded Monday night after police responded to a call of an armed man at a motel. When shots rang out from a room, the officers fired back, authorities said. One officer might have been killed if not for his bulletproof vest, authorities said.

Advertisement

Police are investigating whether both or only one of the men fired at the officers, who were released from the hospital but were shaken up, said police Capt. Joseph Ford.

"They're doing well physically," he said. "It was a very traumatic experience."

Advertisement

Shortly before 9 p.m., Burbank police got a 911 call from the Budget Inn Motel, 8450 S. Cicero Ave., a few miles south of Midway Airport. As officers stood outside a second-floor room trying to make contact with the occupants, shots were fired from inside the room, authorities said.

One officer, a 19-year veteran, was struck twice in the chest, but the bullets did not penetrate his bulletproof vest. The second officer, who has 24 years of service, had a minor wound in his leg, Ford said. Both were treated at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn.

No charges had been filed late Tuesday.

The two men inside the motel room had outstanding warrants for previous cases and were considered to be armed and dangerous, police said. One, Kendall Virgil, 18, of the 500 block of West 57th Street in Chicago, died at the scene, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. Virgil had an outstanding warrant for a weapons offense from the Cook County sheriff's police, Ford said.

The other man, identified as Charles Littlejohn, 23, of the 5700 block of South Union Avenue in Chicago, was shot twice and taken to Christ Medical Center. He underwent surgery Tuesday, Ford said. A hospital spokeswoman said his condition was upgraded to fair.

Littlejohn had two outstanding warrants for resisting a peace officer and for traffic offenses, authorities said. Those warrants were issued by McHenry County officials and the Rockford Police Department, Ford said. Littlejohn will be held on those warrants after he is released from the hospital.

Ford said two guns were found at the scene, a 9 mm with two 30-round clips and a Smith & Wesson .40-caliber. Both weapons have been sent to the Illinois State Police Crime Lab for analysis.

He could not say whether Virgil and Littlejohn were both firing at police.

Advertisement

The shooting was under investigation by Burbank police, Illinois State Police and the South Suburban Major Crimes Task Force.

Police Chief Bruce Radowicz said there was a third person, a woman, inside the motel room, but he would not release her identity. She was being questioned as well.

Radowicz said police did not know what the two men were doing in the room.

"We knocked on the door; that was as far as we got," he said. "I don't know what their intentions were -- if they were just hiding out from the police because of the warrants or not."

-----------

efitzsimmons@tribune.com

Advertisement

jgorner@tribune.com