Hemet police give more details on fatal shooting

10:00 PM PST on Thursday, February 28, 2008



By HERBERT ATIENZA

The Press-Enterprise



A Hemet man who led police on a high-speed car chase around Riverside County early Monday morning was moving toward an officer with a large butcher knife in his hand before he was shot and killed by another officer, police said.



In an unusual step, Hemet police said Thursday they were releasing more details about the incident -- even if it's still in the midst of an investigation -- in order to quiet rumors and speculation that have built around the case.



Still, relatives of Rodney Jackson, 40, say they do not completely believe police and continue questioning the reasons for his shooting.



Jackson was pronounced dead at 3:40 a.m. at Hemet Valley Medical Center. He was taken there shortly after he was shot by a Hemet police officer upon termination of a 55-minute car chase through the streets of Hemet, Homeland, Romoland, Perris and the wrong way on Interstate 215, authorities said.



The chase happened after police were summoned to Jackson's home in the 1400 block of Angelus Hill Road in western Hemet on a domestic disturbance call.



Hemet police Lt. Jeff Pinney said that after Jackson led them on a "lengthy and dangerous" pursuit, officers feared that Jackson would endanger someone if he reached another populated area. Pinney said this prompted officers to attempt a maneuver that forced him off the road, near the intersection of Florida Avenue and Warren Road in Hemet.



He said a police dog was let loose on Jackson in an attempt to take him into custody. He said Jackson, who was still seated on the driver's side of the car, began to struggle with the dog inside the car and several officers approached to assist in taking Jackson into custody.



Pinney said Jackson produced a knife and moved in the direction of an officer who was leaning into the car to restrain the dog. Another officer fired one round, which struck Jackson, he said.



Pinney said the knife, which is longer than 10 inches, has been recovered inside Jackson's white Chevy Aveo. He said a total of two knives were found in the car. Only a single shot was fired, Pinney added.



He declined to name the officer who fired the shot, but said he is on paid leave while the matter is being investigated.



Pinney added that at this point, the officer's actions were within Police Department policy.



Rodney Jackson's Family



But Jackson's family is not satisfied with the explanation.



"I feel like they killed my son, I feel like they murdered him," said Florine Nunn, 61, Jackson's mother.



"I think they were angry because they chased him and couldn't catch him ... the bad adrenaline kicked in and they made a bad decision," she said.



Darryl Terrell, 41, Jackson's brother, questions the need to fire when a police dog was already upon his brother.



"There was nothing he can do," he said. Terrell spoke with his brother on a cell phone during the chase.



Nunn said her son stopped at her Hemet home during the pursuit and told her, "Mother, I'm done," before speeding off. Nunn said her son was on parole for driving under the influence and was convinced that he was going back to jail.



She said her son would have harmed himself before harming anyone else.



"He might have said some things," Terrell said. "But he did not want to end up dead."



Michael Jackson, 39, a younger brother who lives in Victorville, said he finds the officers' version of the events "hard to swallow."



"When a dog is already in the car with him ... how come they didn't ask him to surrender?" Michael Jackson said. He said he called his brother's cell phone after being called and told about the chase. He said his brother was scared.



"He said, 'They're trying to kill me,' " Michael Jackson said. He said he pleaded with him to pull over, but was told, "Let me call you back."



The family questions why police didn't disclose earlier that they have recovered the knife.



Pinney said that information could not be released to the public at the time.



He said the officer decided to shoot based on the officer's perspective of the situation.



"He felt in fear for the safety of the (fellow) officer," Pinney said.



Pinney said officers responding to Rodney Jackson's home on the domestic disturbance call spoke with family members who said Jackson had been drinking and was physically assaulting family members.



Since at least one felony had been committed, he said, officers began checking the area for Jackson and his car.



He said an officer located Jackson near Stetson and Sanderson avenues and caught up with the vehicle in the 1100 block of Bottle Tree Way, where Jackson attempted to contact family members.



Pursuit



When Jackson saw the officer, he attempted to ram the officer's patrol car before fleeing the area, Pinney said.



The Hemet officer and several other responding officers then took off in pursuit, he said. During the chase, he said, Jackson ran numerous stop signs and red lights at speeds up to 110 mph. Police also claim he intentionally struck or rammed four police vehicles and drove the wrong way on Interstate 215 four times.



He said police and California Highway Patrol officers twice tried to terminate the pursuit by using driving maneuvers, but failed both times. He said CHP officers deployed a spike strip, which flattened one of the car's rear tires, but Jackson still was able to keep speeds of 80 mph as he headed toward Hemet on Highway 74.



Anyone with information, including people who had to take evasive action on the freeway, is asked to call Hemet police Detective Josiah Douglas at 951-765-2422.



Reach Herbert Atienza at 951-763-3464 or hatienza@PE.com

