Five Forsyth County sheriff's deputies involved in the fatal shooting of Jovon Antwan Evans during a traffic stop on Lewisville-Clemmons Road in February are back on duty.

The sheriff's office said that deputies Joe Grogan and Todd Simpson are back on patrol duty. Neither deputy fired his gun during the incident.

The three deputies who did fire are Cpl. Ray Goff, Sgt. Greg Walters and deputy Eric Osborne. They are on desk duty while District Attorney Tom Keith waits for the results of an investigation of the shooting by the State Bureau of Investigation.

After reviewing the report, Keith will decide whether he believes that the shooting was justified.

The SBI said yesterday that it has not finished its investigation.

Osborne stopped Evans, 27, at a gas station on Lewisville-Clemmons Road on Feb. 29 for having an expired 30-day license tag.

The sheriff's office said that deputies fired their guns after Evans hit Walters with his car.

The sheriff's office has said that car was reported as stolen.

The five deputies were put on paid leave after the shooting, as is common in officer-involved shootings. The SBI has briefed Keith with some details of the case.

Sheriff's Maj. Brad Stanley said that based on conversations with Keith, the sheriff's office decided to take the deputies off paid leave on March 20. Simpson went back on patrol March 24. Grogan went back March 25.

"Based on the limited information that we have, I don't see anything that the officers did that violated the law," Stanley said. "I think they acted appropriately."

The shooting of Evans has raised concerns among a group of local ministers, which says that it is troubling that a stop for a minor offense led to a fatal shooting.

The Rev. Carlton Eversley, a member of the Ministers' Conference of Winston-Salem and Vicinity, said that he and Darryl Hunt are trying to interview witnesses to get answers for Evans' widow, Keyanna. The couple were married last December.

Hunt, who was wrongly convicted twice for the murder in 1984 of Deborah Sykes, now reviews cases through his Darryl Hunt Project for Freedom and Justice.

Keyanna Evans said she wants to know why so many deputies fired their guns. She also questions how many shots were fired. According to one witness, a deputy chased Evans' car on foot, shooting at it.

"I just need more closure than I have right now," she said. "How many more husbands are they going to take away because they think it's OK?"

Evans' criminal record includes convictions in 2001 and 2003 in Wake County for motor-vehicle theft, assaulting law-enforcement officers and assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill inflicting serious injury.

Details of those incidents, which the Winston-Salem Journal requested last week from Raleigh police, were not available yesterday.

It is not clear if the deputies who stopped Evans knew about his criminal past. A recording of the radio traffic among deputies and dispatchers shows that seven minutes after stopping Evans, Osborne suspected that the car was stolen.

He asked for backup and told a dispatcher that when he entered the car's vehicle-identification number into his computer, the car came back as stolen.

Osborne asked dispatchers to confirm that with Winston-Salem police.

About five minutes later, Goff sent the last transmission before the shooting, telling a dispatcher that he had arrived.

About two minutes later, deputies yell, "Shots fired" over the radio.

The dispatcher did not confirm that the car was stolen before the shooting.

Evans died from a gunshot wound in his chest, according to his death certificate. It's not clear how many times he was shot. The medical examiner who did the autopsy did not return phone calls.

Whether deputies were justified in shooting Evans depends on what led to the shooting and what danger they felt they were in. One challenge, Keith said, is that few witnesses saw what occurred before Evans was shot. But that is common in officer-involved shootings, he said.

"We focus on what preceded the shots, what caused the shots," he said. "Nobody is ever around a couple seconds before the first shot, except the officer and the person."

A car can be used as a deadly weapon, which can justify an officer shooting at a driver, said Vivian Lord, a professor of criminology at UNC Charlotte. Lord is also a former instructor at the N.C. Justice Academy, which trains law-enforcement officers from departments across the state.

"There is some justification for the other deputy shooting at the car if he thought the subject was going to run the deputy down," she said. "It would be same as if the suspect were turning around with a weapon and was going to shoot the deputy."

Neither the SBI nor Stanley would say if Evans had a gun or any other weapon.

An in-car camera would give investigators a better sense of what happened in the stop, Lord said. But the sheriff's office is in the middle of installing new cameras in its patrol cars and there is no in-car video in this case, according to the SBI.

It appears that Osborne did not suspect that the car was stolen until after he had talked to Evans and had checked the VIN number. Once Osborne thought that the car was stolen, he could have ordered Evans out of the car, or he could have approached the car to talk to Evans.

Either option could make sense, depending on the circumstances, Lord said. Osborne would have had the chance to observe Evans and scan the car for any weapons, which could make approaching the car the best next step.

"At some point, he's got to say, ‘You're under arrest," Lord said. "That's always the tricky time."

Without more details about how the deputies shot at Evans, it is also hard to know if the shooting was justified.

If the deputies believed that the car posed a threat to them, then continuing to fire could be justified, Lord said.

Once the danger to deputies is no longer there, shooting is not justified.

"Where that point is, is probably debatable," she said.

■ Dan Galindo can be reached at 727-7377 or at