Syracuse, NY -- The family of a Clay man who died after a police Taser was used on him in 2008 filed a $10 million lawsuit last week against the county, the town of Clay, the Onondaga County Sheriff's Office and Rural/Metro ambulance service.

Syracuse lawyer Christina Cagnina filed the suit on behalf of Verna Gordon, mother of Christopher Jackson.

Jackson, 36, became unresponsive after he was hit by a Taser operated by a Clay police officer on March 3, 2008, and later died.

Jackson's autopsy report, obtained through the family, states his death "is ascribed to cardiopulmonary arrest following Taser discharge (conducted energy device) due to police restraint for aggressive behavior."

Taser International, the maker of the device, is not named in the suit. A grand jury reviewed the death and determined there was no criminality.

Cagnina said that Taser was not included because the device did not appear to have malfunctioned and that Taser did not mislead police in its use.

"There's not a product liability issue that we can see," Cagnina said.

Instead, the suit alleges there was failure to adequately train and supervise the officers, unnecessary and illegal use of force, failure to provide adequate and timely medical assistance and failure to exercise due diligence. The suit also accuses defendants of assault and trespass.

Sheriff Kevin Walsh and a spokesman for Rural/Metro said they had not seen the suit and could not comment. The town of Clay town attorney was unavailable. The Clay police department has since been merged into the sheriff's office.

Police records of the incident state Jackson was aggressively approaching Clay police Officer Kevin Drumm inside the second-floor apartment in Norstar Apartments, 4804 Norstar Blvd., when the Taser was used.

Gordon said the use of the Taser on her son was not needed. Jackson was a tall but frail man with health and mental problems. He was a victim of a 2002 hold-upholdup attempt. A bullet from that incident was still in his brain, gave him mood swings and caused him to act out, Gordon said.

Deputies knew that, she said, because she called them when Jackson previously acted out. In 2003, Four Winds hospital, where Jackson was treated, advised Gordon to call 911 for deputies to help calm him and take him to CPEP, she said. CPEP is the psychiatric emergency room at St. Joseph's Hospital Health Center.

Gordon did that on three occasions. On March 3, 2008, Gordon made her fourth call for help in calming Jackson. She arrived home from work about 9 p.m. and found Jackson agitated over missing car keys.

The 911 call taker told Gordon to wait by the door of the apartment building for police, she said. She and Jackson went into the lobby to wait.

Gordon was not the only one to call 911. A neighbor was concerned after hearing Jackson was yelling and slamming things in the apartment since about 5 p.m. At 9 p.m., Jackson came out and was screaming and yelling in the hallway, according to the witness statement.

"I got scared so I went into my son's room with him and my husband stayed out by the door of our apartment," according to police records. "I finally couldn't take it any more, so I called the police."

Police got to the apartment building before Gordon and Jackson got to the lobby. The other 911 caller, who is not identified by police, came out on the porch and threw keys down to police to let themselves in. The deputies arrived at 9:10 p.m., Drumm, armed with a Taser, arrived three minutes later, according to reports.

By the time Gordon and Jackson were in the lobby, three Onondaga County sheriff's deputies and Drumm had reached the apartment and found the door open. Records show Drumm entered the apartment and began to interview a family friend inside. The deputies went back to view the lobby from the second floor.

At the lobby door on the ground floor, Gordon and Jackson looked up and saw deputies, she said. Jackson started running, she said.

The rest happened quickly, Gordon said. By the time Gordon and the deputies got back to her apartment, Jackson was already there and on the floor.

At 9:22 p.m., Drumm announced to 911 that he had discharged his Taser. Shortly after the Taser discharge, a deputy told 911 to start an ambulance.

At 9:24 p.m., the ambulance arrived. At 10:40 p.m., Jackson was pronounced dead at St. Joseph's Hospital.

Gordon said neither she or her son knew the Clay officer was inside the apartment. A family friend, who neither police nor Gordon would identify, witnessed the use of the Taser.

Jackson suddenly appeared in the apartment, yelling that there were no problems and ordering the officer to leave, according to the witness statement. The officer pulled the Taser and warned Jackson several times to stop or the Taser would be used, the witness said.

"Chris stopped for a second, but continued at the cop. Chris was yelling at the cop, 'You ain't going to Tase me,' " the witness statement reads.

Jackson advanced to about three feet from Drumm, Drumm stepped back and fired the Taser, the witness said. Officers entered seconds later and handcuffed an unresponsive Jackson, records state.