Inside a downtown hotel room early Thursday morning, as police officers yelled from the hallway to open the door, authorities said Juan Ignacio Gutierrez plunged a steak knife into a woman.

What began as a routine disturbance call -- a man and woman arguing at 2 a.m. at the Emily Morgan Hotel -- quickly escalated into a much more violent attack.

"He's stabbing me!" Elvira Hernandez-Moreno screamed, prompting officers to kick at a door that refused to budge.

"We don't need the police right now," Gutierrez yelled, according to a police report. "Everything's OK."

"Step it up," officers told backup units, as Hernandez-Moreno's screams grew fainter.

The struggle inside Room 810 of the hotel at 705 E. Houston St., across the street from the Alamo, finally ended after officers shot Gutierrez, who police said continued to stab the woman after they broke into the room with a battering ram.

Hernandez-Moreno, 45, was pronounced dead at the scene. Gutierrez, 39, was pronounced dead at Brooke Army Medical Center.

The grisly scene marked the city's 23rd homicide this year and the third time in six days that San Antonio officers shot a suspect.

"Sometimes the only recourse ... is to use deadly force," San Antonio Police Chief William McManus told reporters Thursday.

Officer Paul Armendariz, an eight-year member of the force, was immediately placed on administrative leave pending an internal investigation into the shooting.

Police said Thursday that a motive for the fatal stabbing remains unknown.

According to court records, Gutierrez had a history of violence that stretched back at least two decades. Records show Gutierrez was paroled from a Texas prison in 2006 following a conviction for attempted capital murder -- a 1991 stabbing incident in Bexar County.

His eight-year sentence was extended to 20 years in 1993 after he was charged with aggravated assault and using a deadly weapon inside a penal institution, said Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokesman Jason Clark.

On Thursday, Gutierrez's sister spent the day making funeral arrangements for a brother she had not talked to in recent weeks.

"I don't know what to say or think about this," said the sister, who would not identify herself. "We're trying to make sense of it."

Hernandez-Moreno was a mother of three who recently married another man, relatives said, and was described by neighbor Julian Garza as a "super-nice lady who was always friendly."

One of her relatives, who also refused to be identified, said it was unclear why Hernandez-Moreno was at the hotel Thursday morning.

Police sources said Gutierrez was likely a construction worker who lived at the hotel while his company worked on a project at another downtown hotel. No other details about his employment could be learned Thursday.