MUSCATINE, Iowa — About 40 of Lee Romine’s friends lit candles Sunday night during a vigil at his home on what would have been his 34th birthday.

“We want people to know he was a good guy,” said Jennifer Schreurs, 28. She organized the vigil with her husband, Chad Schreurs, 34, and Lindsay Strause, 25, all of Muscatine.

Romine killed himself Friday evening, according to Muscatine police, after shooting at the officer who responded to a domestic dispute at 1011 Cypress St., where Romine lived by himself. He fired a second shot at Kerri Beason of Muscatine and their infant daughter. No one was injured, but the second shot hit the car in which Beason had put the baby.

His friends organized the vigil in response to some of the things that have been said in the community.

“Maybe we’re mad at the cops. We’re just not happy,” Jennifer Schreurs said. “We don’t know what was going through his head. We wish we knew.”

Romine, a 1992 Muscatine High School graduate, is survived by his parents, Terry and Kwan Romine and his daughter. He enjoyed the outdoors, hunting, playing cards and riding his Harley-Davidson.

“He was a stereotypical guy,” said R.J. Strong, 31, of 1113 Isett Ave. “Lee was like my brother … He’s been my best friend since we were

little kids.”

They worked together at Allsteel and had talked earlier in the day, Strong said. He said that Romine gave no indication anything was wrong.

“He’d come to the house every day,” Strong said. He said their ritual was to meet every night at 8 for Long Island iced teas.

“They have a path worn in the alley, walking back and forth to each other,” Regina Strong said of her husband and Romine.

Romine’s house is still considered a crime scene. Yellow police tape blocks the front door. It’s more than his friends — including a husband and wife whom Romine introduced to each other and another couple whose dog he watched during their vacations — can comprehend.

“He was the Dogfather,” Jennifer Schreurs said. “I don’t know if anyone else called him the Dogfather, but we did.”

Reporter contact information:

Chris Steinbach, 563-262-0535