After allegedly shooting a Scotts Bluff County Deputy, 46-year-old William C. Gibb turned his weapon upon himself Saturday at Circle S Lodge in Gering.

Gibb died Sunday at Regional West Medical Center Monday from the apparent self-inflicted gunshot. The deputy wounded in the arm Saturday at the motel is identified as Troy Brown.

Because Gibb, a suspect, died while in protective custody a grand jury will convene to examine the case. The death is under investigation by the Nebraska State Patrol with assistance from the Scottsbluff Police Department.

In an interview Sunday, Weimer said two county sheriff’s deputies arrived at the Circle S Lodge at approximately 2:30 p.m. Saturday. The two were attempting to serve an arrest warrant on Gibb for two counts of criminal mischief and one count of violating a protection order. They also had a search warrant to enter the room, Weimer said.

“They were there to execute two warrants, and that was part of the confusion (Saturday). Was it a search warrant? Was it an arrest warrant? It was both,” he said. “They entered the room. … At some point, shots were fired and the deputy was shot in the right arm. The deputies then backed out of the room and made a call asking for other agencies to assist.”

When additional officers from the Gering Police Department arrived, approximately seven officers re-entered the motel room and discovered Gibb with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Weimer said that at that point, the wounded deputy had been taken to Regional West Medical Center. A second ambulance was called to take the suspect from the scene.

Investigators report an unidentified woman was also in the room at the time of the gunfire. Weimer said she was arrested for obstruction of justice and harboring a fugitive.

n our May 22 edition we reported criminal charges were dropped against Obendorfer.

Obendorfer was the girlfriend of 46-year-old William C. (Curt) Gibb, who allegedly shot himself after wounding a Scotts Bluff County Sheriff’s Deputy with a gunshot May 3.

Obendorfer was originally arrested for obstruction of justice and harboring a fugitive as Gibb was wanted by authorities on a county criminal warrant.