The family of an Alton man who died after being shocked with a Taser by a sheriff's deputy is questioning the deputy's actions and wants an independent investigation.

The Sheriff's Department closed its investigation Thursday, saying the deputy acted properly and followed the department's policies.

"We have no indication that there was any violation of policy or procedure," said Lt. Dave Tiefenbrunn. "He (the deputy) was forced to do what he had to do."

James S. Wilson, 22, of the 2000 block of Henry Street, died after he was shocked by a deputy responding to a call Tuesday night about an assault in the parking lot of the Piasa Pantry gas station and convenience store in West Alton.

St. Charles County Sheriff Tom Neer said Wilson was punching his sister outside the store when the deputy arrived about 9:15 p.m.

When the deputy ordered him several times to stop and lie down, Neer said, Wilson verbally threatened and lunged at the deputy, forcing him to shoot Wilson with a Taser.

Wilson lost consciousness and died a short time later.

His family said in a statement they "strongly disagree" with the Sheriff Department's version of what happened. Wilson's mother and two sisters witnessed the confrontation. One of their lawyers, Phillip Steinman, would not reveal which facts they disputed but said the family is getting an independent autopsy.

The St. Louis County Medical Examiner's office said results of its autopsy and toxicology tests may take four to five weeks.

Private funeral arrangements were pending Thursday.

"They are bound together in the strong belief and hope that justice will ultimately prevail," Steinman said.

Wilson's ex-girlfriend, Keosha DeBruce, said Wednesday that Wilson's mother told her the sheriff's deputy shot him twice with the Taser, once after he was already on the ground.

The Sheriff's Department defended the deputy's actions.

"The blame is not to be put on law enforcement," Tiefenbrunn said. "When there's cooperation with law enforcement, there's never going to be an outcome like this."

In such cases, Tiefenbrunn said, it is the suspect's actions that compel an officer to use force.

Alton police said Wilson was well-known to them.

Wilson's criminal history includes convictions for theft, drug possession and resisting arrest plus charges of domestic battery and property damage.

The use of Tasers has been criticized by some, including an official with the local American Civil Liberties Union office, as unsafe. The manufacturer, Taser International, promotes the weapons as an alternative to batons or pepper spray and believes they are useful in cases that could otherwise call for the use of a firearm.

Tasers are designed to incapacitate a person by delivering 50,000 volts of electricity through two barbed darts connected to the guns by wires. They are used by nearly 13,000 law enforcement and military agencies worldwide.