Santos gives up law license for two years

CHICAGO (AP) -- Former Chicago Treasurer Miriam Santos has agreed to give up her law license for two years in a deal with the state agency that disciplines lawyers. Santos pleaded guilty to one count of felony mail fraud in October, avoiding a second trial on charges of attempting to extort campaign funds. She had been convicted in 1999 of attempting to extort campaign funds from a city contractor and forcing her office workers to do campaign work on city time.

Santos served four months in federal prison before the conviction was overturned in January 2000 when an appellate court cited a "litany of errors" by the trial judge. As part of her October plea agreement, Santos resigned as city treasurer and must pay $21,000 in fines and restitution but won't have to go back to prison. The two-year license suspension is a result of the felony plea. The recommendation by the Illinois Supreme Court's Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission must be approved by the agency's hearing board and the high court.

Santos, who grew up poor in Gary, Ind., was an obscure attorney when Mayor Richard Daley backed her for city treasurer. She won the job in 1991, becoming the first Hispanic elected to citywide office. In 1998, Santos became the Democratic nominee for attorney general. The investigation of that campaign resulted in the charges against her.

Security guard gets close up view of Hanks

BEECHER, Ill. (AP) -- While a crowd of fans was stuck outside, braving a stiff north wind and hoping for a glimpse of Tom Hanks, security guard Dave Taylor of Bradley got an up-close and slightly too personal look at the two-time Academy Award winner.

Taylor was working Tuesday as a security guard on the set of Hanks' movie, "Road to Perdition," being filmed at the historic St. Paul's Evangelical Lutheran Church in rural Beecher. His job? Keep the small throng of fans at bay.

But shortly after breakfast, Taylor needed to visit the restroom in the basement of the church. There, at a neighboring urinal, stood Hanks.

"I looked at his face and I did a double-take," the guard said just after the incident, still star-struck and shaking his head in disbelief.

Seeing that Taylor was flabbergasted by the close encounter, Hanks laughed and said to him, "Now aren't you the lucky one?"

Taylor said he just nodded and replied, "Do you think I could get your picture?"

The ill-timed request came on behalf of a fan outside, who had asked Taylor to snap a photograph if he got close enough to Hanks. "Well yeah," Hanks said, "but not right now!"

Grand jury finds no criminal conduct by police in deaths of couple

COZAD, Neb. (AP) -- A grand jury has found no criminal conduct on the part of police in the deaths of an Illinois couple involved in an armed robbery and pursuit in Dawson County. Ending its work Wednesday, the grand jury decided not to issue indictments in the deaths of 27-year-old Thomas Yoakum of Sugar Grove, Ill., and his companion, 42-year-old Sue Danforth of Aurora, Ill.

At least seven officers, including Cozad and Lexington police officers, were involved in the chase.

The couple used a shotgun to hold up Big E's Lounge in Cozad about closing time early on Feb. 1, then led police on a chase that circled back to Cozad and ended when they crashed their pickup truck into a pole near the robbery scene.

The two were found dead in the vehicle from apparent self-inflicted gunshot wounds. State law requires a grand jury investigation when someone has died while in custody or while being pursued by police.