Kevin Frisch

It is a measure of how ambivalent the nation has become with the Bush administration that legions of angry consumers aren’t marching on Washington (it’s too expensive to drive there) with pitchforks and torches to protest the astronomical price of gas.

If any other product rose in price every day, willy-nilly, for no reason, the American public would ... well, they’d pay. They’ve been getting pummeled like this for years. Property taxes go up, cable TV rates go up and health care goes up (unless you’re a state employee, in which case, you’re welcome). They just don’t go up EVERY SINGLE DAY the way gas does.

And what has caused this heavenward spike since the beginning of the year? According to industry analyst Tank Barren, the reason gas prices are rising is, “Because.”

Apparently, everyone is blaming everyone else. The United States blames OPEC for limiting production and increasing demand. OPEC blames the United States for its high fuel taxes. Conservatives blame liberals for opposing new domestic drilling. Liberals blame conservatives for not supporting investment in alternative energies. And Congress blames Big Oil for its obscene profits (the Democrats in Congress, anyway; the Republicans this week filibustered a bill to rescind $17 billion in tax breaks for oil companies).

Me? I blame the analysts. My point is made in a June 10 article in the Seattle Post Intelligencer: “A Morgan Stanley analyst’s prediction that oil would hit $150 by the Fourth of July helped set off Friday’s surge.”

Shut up, Morgan Stanley. And that goes for the rest of you so-called analysts (except you, Tank; insightful explanations like yours are hard to come by). It’s a well-known fact (and by “well-known fact,” like the commentators on Fox News, I actually mean “my opinion”) that predicting a higher price gives the industry permission to reach that price.

Unfortunately, this trend does not work in reverse. Otherwise, we’d all be thanking media baron Rupert Murdoch, who, in throwing his support behind the soon-to-come war in Iraq in 2003, said its main benefit would be the price of oil: “The greatest thing to come out of this for the world economy, if you could put it that way, would be $20 a barrel for oil.” Not bad, Rupey. You only missed by $118 a barrel.

The fact the President Bush seems to have no concrete energy policy would be disappointing, had he maintained the ability to disappoint. When I was about 10 years old, I wrote a letter to President Nixon asking what he was doing about the high price of gas and other products (baseball cards and pre-sweetened cereal, most likely).

I got back a very nice letter (yes, I know now it was a form letter) signed by the president (yes, I know now it was signed by some machine) that included a thick booklet titled “Phase II.” This was Nixon’s economic policy and I doubt I read one word of it. But I knew the president had at least thought about the problems affecting middle-classers like me and had taken the time and trouble to come up with a plan.

I saw video the other day of a reporter asking President Bush in late February about his response to the possibility that gas could soon hit $4 a gallon. His response was, “I hadn’t heard that.” Ugh!

I guess the president feels he’s done his duty on this issue. After all, he asked the Saudis to pump more oil. Can he help it if they said no?

For the record, gas averaged a $1.14 a gallon in New York state when President Clinton took office and had risen to just $1.43 a gallon the year President Bush succeeded him. It’s anybody’s guess what the price will be when the next president takes the oath but one of the men in the running is guessing high.

“I don’t think it’s going much lower, and it could go higher,” Republican Sen. John McCain said on the “Today Show” Wednesday. He’s as bad as those analysts.

McCain is among those — along with Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton — pushing to suspend the federal 18.4-cent gas tax for the summer. As if the oil companies aren’t profiting enough (don’t think they’ll pass that entire savings on to you).

Fuel prices will no doubt be an issue for McCain and his Democratic opponent, Sen. Barack Obama, to debate this fall. Here’s hoping their grasp of — and proposed response to — the issue is more like that of President Nixon than that of the man they seek to replace.

Because even a 10-year-old can tell the difference.

Contact Messenger managing editor Kevin Frisch at (585) 394-0770/Ext. 257 or by e-mail at kfrisch@messengerpostmedia.com.