Two men were killed and three others were injured in police-involved shootings since Wednesday, a spike that police attributed to a climate of violence in some communities and some victims' relatives blamed on overzealous policing.

Reginald Knight, 26, of the 10800 block of South Parnell Avenue was shot multiple times late Sunday night after police said he confronted officers with a gun. The fatal shooting happened in the 300 block of West 109th Place at about 11:20 p.m. The Independent Police Review Authority, which is investigating all the shootings, said a gun was recovered from the scene.

Advertisement

Police spokeswoman Monique Bond said the three weekend shootings involved individuals who confronted police with weapons. She said the spate of shootings is due to an increase in violence in the summer months.

"Every loss of life is tragic," she said. "But, I think given the climate of violence being experienced in some of the most challenging districts, the officers are being challenged with trying to keep the peace and trying to keep the community safe."

Advertisement

In recent years, Knight had 18 arrests, all misdemeanors for drugs, trespassing, assault, battery and disorderly conduct.

Devon Young, 26, was shot and killed Saturday after officers responded to a call of shots fired, authorities said. Neighbors said Young was running with two other men when he was shot. Young had a criminal history dating back nine years, including felony convictions for burglaries in 2003 and 2004 for which he was sentenced to four years in prison.

One neighbor, who said he was a friend of Young's, said the man had a gun, which is illegal in Chicago, but that he wasn't carrying it that night. "They didn't have to do that," said Tony Parker.

Jonathan Pinkerton, 16, was shot by police Wednesday evening in the 130th block of South Drexel Avenue. Police said he confronted them with a weapon. He was charged with unlawful use of a weapon and aggravated assault to a police officer.

Sharon Burton said her son was hanging out with other teens and ran with them when police approached. She said he was not armed and that he was a good student. Burton said he plays basketball and video games and had never gotten into trouble. She said her son is paralyzed from the shooting and remains hospitalized.

In another incident, police shot and injured a man at 7:35 p.m. Saturday in the 5900 block of South Michigan Avenue. A handgun was recovered, police said, and the incident was believed to be gang-related.