The drug suspect fatally shot by police last week after he opened fire on the officers was one of 37 alleged dope dealers nabbed during an island-wide sweep headed by Suffolk authorities, police announced Thursday.

Carmine Wisnieski, 26, was a key player in the lucrative drug ring that was busted early last Friday when cops in Suffolk, Nassau, Manhattan and Queens raided the homes of dozens of suspected drug pushers. He was killed in his home on Bay Road in Brookhaven after firing his 9-mm. hand gun at cops, police said.

Advertisement

Suffolk County District Attorney Thomas Spota said the raids and arrests were the culmination of a two-year investigation of drug dealing across Suffolk. Detectives focused on a Medford tanning salon, which served as a distribution point for the illegal drugs, he said.

Police seized 265 pounds of marijuana, a half-kilo of cocaine, steroids and bottles of prescription pills. Cops also recovered numerous guns, two bullet-proof vests, $270,000 in cash and more than $110,000 worth of other assets while conducting 27 search warrants on Long Island and in the city, Spota said.

Advertisement

"This case should serve as a reminder that criminals who think Suffolk County is a safe haven for growing or selling narcotics are sadly mistaken," Spota said.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

The bulk of the drugs came to Wisnieski in Queens by way of Angelo Fazio and Jill Dragutski, a couple who live in Forest Hills. Wisnieski sold the drugs to Ryan Huffman, who funneled them through his business, the Galaxy Tanning Studio on Route 112 in Medford, authorities said.

"Many of the deals were made right at the tanning salon," said Detective George Herring, the lead detective in the case.

Huffman's partner, Kevin Cano, and his brother Brian Huffman were also arrested.

The suspects, many of whom have prior arrests and convictions on drug charges, were arraigned in Suffolk County 1st District Court this week. Some are being held on bail as high as $1 million, Spota said.

Suffolk Police Commissioner Richard Dormer said he hopes the arrests put a dent in the county's illegal drug supply.

"We're going to continue our full-court press to keep our young people away from the poison of illegal drugs," he said.

bharmon@nydailynews.com