Two men were shot and killed by Chicago police Sunday in separate incidents.

In the first shooting, Craig Greenlaw said he heard tires screech to a sudden stop early Sunday morning outside his South Side apartment building, followed by shouting and gunfire. He screamed to a relative to call police.

Advertisement

Greenlaw's nephew, Shapell Terrell, and several children were outside the building at East 85th Street and South Oglesby Avenue at 1 a.m. Sunday, and he feared gang fighting was under way.

Greenlaw, 50, said he ran to look out his first-floor window -- and he saw that they didn't need to call police.

Advertisement

"I looked outside and saw Pell," Greenlaw said, using Terrell's family nickname. The police had already arrived. Terrell, 39, of Hammond died at the entrance of the two-story building, where all four apartments were filled with family members, including Greenlaw.

Chicago Police Officer John Henry said Terrell confronted police with a gun. Police then shot Terrell, authorities said. Two guns were later found at the scene, said Mark Payne, a spokesman for the Independent Police Review Authority. Both shootings are being reviewed by the independent agency, as is routine with all such shootings.

Another man was shot and killed by police responding to a domestic disturbance call in the 6800 block of South Aberdeen Street on the South Side about 7:15 p.m. Sunday. Police said they were confronted by an armed man, and they opened fire. A gun was recovered at the home, Payne said.

No further information was available Sunday night.

Family members said it isn't possible that Terrell could have had a gun in each hand and opened fire with children around. They said police told them they were responding to a report of shots fired in the neighborhood, but all they heard were fireworks.

Nina Eskridge, 20, said her father worked hard at a sanitation job to help support his seven children, of which she is the oldest.

"He worked as a garbage man to take care of his kids," Eskridge said, standing where her father died and holding his photo.

In the doorway by Eskridge, Terrell's family placed his uniform for his job at Diamond Waste & Recycling Corp.

Advertisement

"He was a gentle giant. He fell, and they kept shooting," Greenlaw said Sunday afternoon as more than a dozen friends and family members gathered outside the building.

The doorway and building entrance smelled heavily of bleach, and a mop was resting against the wall. Greenlaw said he cleaned up the last of the blood that he said officials missed in their own cleanup.

Despite saying he could handle the work, Greenlaw's eyes were coated with tears as he recounted the morning's task.

"Don't ever do it," he said.

---------

eachenbaum@tribune.com