A man who lost numerous legal battles with Minnesota’s Morrison County over his now-closed adult entertainment businesses was fatally shot after he walked into a county board meeting Tuesday and held at least seven people hostage.

Gordon Wheeler Sr., 60, of Little Falls, was wounded after the county sheriff, a sheriff’s lieutenant and a state trooper opened fire, minutes after he took several county officials hostage as they were wrapping up a board meeting.

Wheeler died later at St. Gabriel’s Hospital in Little Falls, about 100 miles northwest of St. Paul.

It was unclear whether Wheeler returned fire or if he turned the gun on himself, said Dave Bjerga, assistant superintendent for the state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension. No one else was injured.

County Commissioner Tom Wenzel said eight county officials were at the meeting about 10:20 a.m. They were four of the five county commissioners and the county’s administrator, attorney, clerk and auditor.

Wheeler allowed the auditor as well as a cable television camera operator and a newspaper intern to leave. Then he began a long diatribe, Wenzel said.

“He talked the whole while, he never quit talking for at least 10 minutes, until the climax,” Wenzel said.

Wenzel declined to comment on what Wheeler said and the events surrounding the shooting, noting that it was an ongoing investigation.

Kyle Kuphal, 27, a senior at St. Cloud State University, was starting the third week of his first journalism internship at the weekly Morrison County Record. He was seated in the front row of the board’s chambers.

“They had just made the motion to adjourn, and before anybody could second the motion, he stood up to say, ‘Wait just a minute,’ ” Kuphal said.

“He looked to me like a farmer; he didn’t seem out of the ordinary. I thought, ‘Oh, maybe it was somebody with news or something to say.’

“He had something to say, I guess.”

Wheeler pulled a red handkerchief out of his bib overalls and unwrapped a gun, which he waved at those present while he stepped forward, Kuphal said.

“He kind of motioned in our direction and said, ‘If you want to leave, go on.’ We took him up on that offer,” Kuphal said.

The offices of Sheriff Michel Wetzel — who had left the meeting before the incident began — are in the same building. One of those released ran to get Wetzel, who returned along with a deputy and a state trooper.

Police filed into the hallway leading to the board chambers, Kuphal said. Outside, SWAT team members took positions on rooftops.

“It was over in a matter of minutes,” said Bjerga. The exact details of the shooting remained under investigation Tuesday.

Though none of the items on Tuesday’s agenda was related to Wheeler, he had a history of conflict with the county.

Wheeler had owned a few adult businesses in the county. In 2003, the county tightened its land-use ordinance for sex-related businesses and shut down an adult book and video store Wheeler owned near Swanville called Lookin’ Fine Smut and Porno, according to reports by the St. Cloud Times.

After the Swanville store was closed, Wheeler remained the owner of an exotic dancing club called Camp Bar near Camp Ripley. Wheeler was convicted in 2006 of promoting and profiting from prostitution and owning or operating a disorderly house after an investigation by the Minneapolis Police Department’s vice unit.

According to an administrative law judge’s findings of fact submitted in November 2005 to the Morrison County Board, two police officers were offered sex by dancers within the bar — of which a portion, the dancers said, would go to Wheeler.

The county board denied Wheeler’s liquor license for the Camp Bar, and a judge ordered the bar to close two years ago.

A little more than a year later, Wheeler sued the county and several county officials, accusing them of corruption. The suits were dismissed.

The BCA is handling the investigation of the shooting. Bjerga said the Minnesota attorney general’s office will review its results.

Wheeler’s autopsy was scheduled for today, said Don Gorrie, a spokesman for the Ramsey County medical examiner’s office.

This report includes information from the Associated Press. John Brewer contributed to this report. Tad Vezner can be reached at 651-228-5461.