Armed Suspect Fatally Shot by Officer at 5400 Lockwood June 30, 2008 - Houston police are investigating the aggravated assault of an HPD officer that resulted in the officer fatally shooting a male suspect in the 5400 block of Lockwood about 12:40 a.m. on Saturday (June 28). The suspect, Willie David Curtis Jr., suffered a gunshot wound and was pronounced dead at the scene. Officer Joseph D. Babineaux II, sworn in as an officer in July 2006, is assigned to the Northeast Division and was on-duty when he discharged his firearm at the suspect. Officer Babineaux was not injured in the incident. Officer Gilbert Garcia, sworn in as an officer in March 1990, is also assigned to the Northeast Division and was not injured during the incident. HPD Homicide Division Sergeant G. Gonzalez and Officer J. Sosa reported: Officer Babineaux and Officer Garcia responded to a family disturbance with a weapon call at the 4400 block of Lockwood at Cavalcade. The female victim stated the father of her children (Curtis) had threatened her with a gun and was still in the area. When officers arrived at the scene, Curtis was gone. While officers were gathering information from the victim, Curtis drove by in his vehicle. Officers Babineaux and Garcia attempted to follow Curtis as he drove down Cavalcade to Dabney. Curtis accelerated, turned off his headlights and attempted to evade officers, driving at a high rate of speed on Dabney. The suspect eventually wrecked his vehicle in the bayou at Hutcheson Park. Officer Babineaux saw Curtis exit the vehicle with a pistol in his hand. The suspect then pointed the pistol in the direction of Officer Babineaux. Fearing for his life, Officer Babineaux, fired his service weapon several times, striking the suspect. Officer Garcia did not discharge his service weapon during the incident. As is customary in HPD officer-involved shootings in the city limits, the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions, as well as the Harris County District Attorney’s Office are investigating this incident.



VHS/JC

Inc. #094306208



For additional information, please contact the HPD Public Affairs Division at 713-308-3200.