ST. LOUIS COUNTY • County police caused a naked, mentally ill man's death in 2008 by repeatedly shocking him with their Tasers, a new civil suit alleges.

The suit, filed May 5 in federal court in St. Louis against two officers, the county and the Taser manufacturer, claims that police used excessive force and ignored the medical needs of Samuel K. De Boise during and after the arrest.

It also alleges that the Taser is dangerous and the county failed to properly train officers on it.

A police spokesman would not comment, citing the pending litigation.

The allegations involve an incident on the evening of July 8, 2008. The suit and a police report lay out the incident this way:

De Boise, 29, left his mother's house in the 6100 block of Lake Paddock Drive, in north St. Louis County, the night before, naked. He appeared in the neighborhood the next morning, still naked, hitting at least one neighbor's house with a stick and claiming to be God.

De Boise, who had struggled with mental illness in the past, worked in construction, operated a tow truck service and was a rapper, poet and musician, the suit says. His family told police that in previous days, his behavior became increasingly erratic and he was researching "weapons of mass destruction, Hitler, and the Iraq war."

De Boise returned home that evening and violently assaulted his mother, punching her and slamming her head against the wall. He held her hostage for several hours, forcing her to bow to him and threatening her life.

She fled the house and called police while De Boise went on a destructive rampage through the house.

Officers armed with pistols, a rifle, shotgun and Tasers surrounded the house, and when De Boise emerged, he initially agreed to lie down and be handcuffed.

But, police reported, he then jumped to his feet and began "charging" the officers. After being shocked with a Taser, De Boise fell to the ground and was shocked repeatedly by two officers.

Police handcuffed him after one officer shocked him four times and the second officer shocked him three times, but he continued to struggle until paramedics injected him with anti-psychotic and anti-anxiety drugs, the report says.

De Boise then stopped breathing. He was pronounced dead at a hospital.

The lawsuit disputes the police report. It claims that Officer Joseph Percich used his Taser to shock De Boise seven times in 97 seconds: six five-second cycles and one two-second cycle. Officer Bret Lively used a Taser to shock De Boise four times in 38 seconds, the suit says, using a full five-second cycle each time.

The lawsuit also claims that by restraining De Boise with their body weight, officers prevented him from breathing properly.

The suit seeks funeral and medical expenses and other compensation for De Boise's father and two young children. His mother and his wife chose not to participate, the suit says.

The police report says that witnesses, including De Boise's father and mother, backed up officers' version of the incident immediately after the event.

Family members could not be reached for comment this week.

The St. Louis County medical examiner's office said last year that De Boise died of "excited delirium" because of an acute psychotic episode, not due to the use of the Tasers.

Bevis Schock, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers, said that excited delirium "really is kind of a made-up thing for Taser deaths." Regarding the use of force, he said, "You got a mental case in your hands, not a criminal case."

While declining to comment on the lawsuit, Taser spokesman Steve Tuttle said in an e-mail that the device is a safer alternative to other police weapons and that studies have shown Taser use to be safe.

Tuttle also wrote that Taser's winning record in litigation is 105-1.