Three men tending a pot farm in the Saratoga hills were armed, but did not fire on Santa Clara County sheriff’s deputies who shot and killed one of them last month, according to sheriff’s officials.

Two deputies were placed on administrative leave after the shooting, which is routine after shootings.

Until this week, the sheriff’s department had declined to give details of how the fatal July 11 shooting occurred. The raid was part of a yearly eradication effort of pot farms in the South and Central Bay areas. Authorities said they were still tracking down leads and did not want to compromise the investigation.

The two sheriff’s deputies – Cregg Dibert, a nine-year veteran and Marc Lehman, a six-year veteran – were part of a team of local and state officers who were to begin eradicating the plants that day.

“As they approached, they saw these guys and identified themselves as law enforcement,” sheriff’s Capt. Steven Angus said. “Then one of the suspects who was holding a long gun turned toward the deputies. As he turned he began to raise up his arm with the gun and two of the deputies opened fire.”

The suspect who was shot “forced their hand,” Angus said. “He didn’t freeze.”

Angus said the gun “turned out to be a shotgun.” One of the other men had a hand gun, which he dropped when he ran, and the third suspect, who also ran, had a “long gun,” Angus said.

“Numerous rounds were fired by the two deputies,” Angus said but he declined to say just how many shots were fired.

The Sheriff’s department said none of the suspects fired a shot during the encounter.

The dropped handgun has not been linked to any other crimes “at this point” and the pot farm “has not been positively linked to other pot farms.”

Angus said the men had been tending the pot farm as well as serving as security guards for the marijuana, which was nearing harvest.

The suspect who was shot and killed was identified by the sheriff’s department as Artemio Calderon Maldonado of Modesto.

The other two suspects are described only as men in their mid-20s.

Anyone with information concerning this investigation is encouraged to contact detective Sgt. Baker or detective Sgt. Leon at (408) 808-4500. Those wishing to remain anonymous can call the Sheriff’s Office Tip Line at (408) 808-4431.