LONG BEACH – An 18-year-old suspect who died in the back of a police cruiser Saturday night was hit in the head with a shotgun by the resident of an apartment he was allegedly attempting to burglarize, police said today.

Authorities are still trying to determine how Deshoun Keyon Torrence of Lake Elsinore died.

The teen struggled with police and residents of the apartment complex but was alert and coherent when paramedics treated him at the scene for a laceration to the head, said Long Beach Police Cmdr. Laura Farinella.

Long Beach Fire Department Capt. Mike Duree said paramedics were dispatched at about 9:40 p.m. in response to reports of a man with cuts on his hands. DuRee said Torrence was treated at the scene for injuries and remained in police custody.

But shortly after paramedics left, police discovered Torrence was not breathing in the back of the police car. Paramedics returned and determined him to be dead at the scene.

“It’s always a concern when someone dies in our custody,” the commander said. “There was no indication that in five minutes this kid was going to die. We’re just as baffled and concerned as anybody as to why he died.”

Assistant Coroner’s Chief Ed Winter said Torrence suffered injuries before his death Saturday, including being hit with the butt of a shotgun, but could not say if the injuries were inflicted by police or residents of the apartment building.

An autopsy is scheduled for Tuesday, Winter said.

Farinella said the resident of a studio apartment at 619 Elm Avenue was returning home on Saturday night when he was confronted by an intruder inside the apartment.

The resident, described as a man in his late 20s, called for a neighbor to help him and the two men struggled with the suspect inside the apartment, she said. Farinella said the suspect had a shotgun, which was taken away by the resident, who hit the suspect in the head with it.

Police arrived and continued to struggle with the suspect inside the apartment.

Residents at the 16-unit complex, including the manager, who lives on site and asked not to be identified, said police used a Taser on the suspect several times.

Farinella said police used “necessary force” to apprehend the suspect but would not give details. Authorities may release further information at a possible conference today, she added.

The apartment manager, who was home during the incident, which took place between about 9 and 10 p.m., said she saw police lay a sawed-off shotgun against the door.

The resident, she said, used his own handcuffs to apprehend the suspect and police had to use a bolt cutter to get the handcuffs off and put their own on.

The resident declined today to be interviewed.

The apartment manager said she did not witness the struggle but did see police escort the suspect out of the apartment and into the back of the police car.

“He was walking normally,” she said. “He looked OK.”

Residents said the Elm Avenue complex is close-knit community where “everyone knows everyone.”

The family of Deshoun Torrence came to the complex Sunday night to see where he died, resident said.

One resident, who asked not to be identified, said his neighbor was in the right for protecting his property.

“But there’s a family out there grieving,” the manager added.

As for all in-custody deaths, the District Attorney’s Office is conducting a parallel investigation, Farinella said.

kelly.puente@presstelegram.com, (562) 499-1305