It wasn't uncommon for Julian De Leon's girlfriend to call police if the young man became extremely threatening during an argument, her mother said.

At 7:30 a.m. Saturday, when police arrived at their South Side apartment in the 10100 block of Poteet-Jourdanton Highway, De Leon refused to simmer down. Instead, according to a police report, the 19-year-old man grabbed a weapon and approached the officers, yelling, "What are you going to do now?"

One of the officers responded with a gunshot, killing De Leon.

"The suspect came out of the bedroom with a handgun - later determined to be a hand-fired pellet gun - raised the gun and Officer Edward Pedraza immediately drew his weapon and, fearing for his life and the life of the woman, fired once hitting the suspect," Sandy Gutierrez, a San Antonio Police Department spokeswoman, said in a prepared statement.

Pedraza, a 35-year-old, 11-year SAPD veteran, will be placed on administrative duty during the investigation, as is standard in all officer-involved shootings.

While police investigated the scene into Saturday afternoon, relatives discussed the couple's past and the future of their 4-month-old baby, who was inside a bedroom with two other children and her aunt when De Leon was shot in the apartment's main hallway.

"It's understandable the police would be defensive ... but they didn't have to kill him," said Eleanor Cunningham, a relative.

"He wasn't a bad person. He never hurt my daughter," said Raquel Guerra, the mother of De Leon's 19-year-old girlfriend. "He was afraid of her."

The women said the arguments never resulted in physical violence.

"I think she would just get nervous, so she would call police," Cunningham said.

The couple's family struggled to understand why he would brandish a pellet gun in front of armed police officers.

"I don't know what possessed him to do that. I don't know what to think," Guerra said. "I think he took the red cap off the front of the gun to make it look like a real gun, but we don't know why."

While the young man had a troubled past, he had recently begun to live a clean life, family members said. He was working in a warehouse for a major food-distribution company and helping pay bills.

Saturday's incident was at least the fifth time that San Antonio officers have shot suspects in the line of duty this year and the second to result in a fatality. Police shot eight people - five fatally - last year. Two Balcones Heights police officers shot and wounded a man on Tuesday while apparently seeing a gun in his hand. It turned out to be his wallet.

On April 10, Officer Paul Armendariz, an eight-year police veteran, shot and killed Juan Ignacio Gutierrez, 39, after Gutierrez fatally stabbed a woman inside a room at the Emily Morgan Hotel.

On April 9, Officers Kenneth Thuleen and Ignacio Vidaurri shot and seriously injured Rainey Lewis, 47, of Seguin in the 9800 block of Perrin Beitel Road after apparently seeing a gun-shaped object in his hand. It turned out to be a flip-style cell phone.

On April 4, Officer Michael Blanquiz, a seven-year member of the department, shot and critically wounded 52-year-old Timothy McCloskey, after McCloskey killed a popular doctor in the 200 block of East Sonterra Boulevard.

On Feb. 21, Officer Emanuel Keith, a 12-year member of the department, shot and critically wounded 28-year-old Bander Mashery Alshery, who was wielding a knife in the 2900 block of East Southcross Boulevard.