SALINAS >> Attorneys for the family of a man shot by Salinas police filed court documents demanding the release of records in that and another officer-involved shooting.

Attorneys Christopher Dolan and Aimee Kirby are asking the court order the City of Salinas to turn over the requested documents within 10 days.

On Tuesday, Dolan”s firm issued a press release that included a copy of the cover letter to Salinas City Attorney Chris Callihan taking issue with the city”s rationale that an ongoing investigation into the May 9 death of Osman Hernandez is still underway.

Writing on behalf of Hernandez” relatives Alberto Laidez and Lidia Guardado Mejia, the law firm is asking the city for all records relating to Hernandez” death, including 911 tapes, officer communications, witness statements, autopsy reports, names of officers involved and the department”s use of force policies in place at the time.

Callihan says the records are exempt from disclosure for two reasons: “The matters are under investigation and making sure the officers” lives and families are protected.”

Callihan said he hasn”t been served yet with the writ and hadn”t read it by Tuesday afternoon.

But Dolan said his office has been denied all the documents requested, not just the contested materials.

He also said police have publicly announced they finished their investigation. In a cover letter addressed to Callihan, Dolan wrote, “On various occasions your chief of police has exonerated these officers and concluded the investigation in statements via video and audio to the press.”

At a May 15 news conference Police Cmdr. Vince Maiorana said officers had no choice but to shoot Hernandez after he brandished a knife in a crowded parking lot.

Although Police Chief Kelly McMillin said his own office had concluded its internal investigation, he added the case would be turned over to the District Attorney for final review after toxicology and coroner”s reports are complete.

Dolan also mentioned in his filing that the city did not respond to his offer to keep officers” names confidential.

Callihan said he and Dolan talked about a confidentiality agreement, but said he never received one from Dolan.

Dolan describes it differently.

“We reached an impasse,” he said. “We felt they were stonewalling us.”

Dolan”s filing also asks for all training and use of force guidelines put in place after the shooting of Maria Irma de la Torre, 45, who was killed by Salinas police in July 2008.

Less than a week after that shooting, then-police Chief Dan Ortega identified the officers involved as Steven Mattocks and Robert Balaoro.

“We always identify officers in these situations. It”s a matter of timing when,” Ortega said at the time. “It”s the public”s right to know. We like to keep it secret early on in the investigation.” In 2010, an Oakland law firm settled a civil suit with the city over De la Torre”s death for more than $2 million.

Dolan said he wants records of training officers received after De la Torre”s death to see if “they violated those protocols” in Hernandez” case.

Dolan is especially interested in the department”s “escalation of force” policy because, he said, “they shot this man with an AK-47 while he was on the ground. Why not use a baton?”

Maiorana said at the May news conference that Hernandez had been waving a knife and frightening people in a supermarket parking lot when officers were summoned.

After Hernandez was downed by Taser shots, Maiorana said, he was “making it very apparent that he wanted to hurt somebody,” then displayed a knife in his waistband and reached for it before he was shot.

Dolan said Hernandez was shot in the head and body several times and that one of the weapons used was an assault rifle.

Julia Reynolds can be reached at 648-1187.