Community Corner Former Marine Convicted of Murder in Hollywood Crash A jury will now determine whether Sergio Rogelio Delgado was legally sane at the time of the July 2008 crash that killed pedestrians Cecilia Diaz and Pedro Davila. Reply

A former Marine was convicted today of second-degree murder and other charges for driving drunk and killing two pedestrians who were crossing an intersection in Hollywood three years ago.

Along with two counts of second-degree murder, the Los Angeles County Superior Court jury found 32-year-old Sergio Rogelio Delgado guilty of two counts of gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated and one count of hit-and-run. The 10-woman, two-man panel must now determine whether Delgado was legally sane or insane at the time of the July 13, 2008, crash that killed Cecilia Diaz and Pedro Davila. The two were struck on Wilcox Avenue after Delgado ran a red light. Police—who were about two blocks behind—had begun pursuing the defendant after observing him driving at a "very high rate of speed,'' Deputy District Attorney Kennes Ma told jurors.

Delgado—whose blood-alcohol content was nearly four times the legal limit—had previously been convicted in 2003 of driving under the influence and had completed a program that included discussion about the perils of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, Ma told jurors. Defense attorney John Lee said his client suffered post-traumatic stress disorder stemming from his military service, including a stint in which he was commended by the Marine Corps for guarding Taliban and al-Qaida prisoners.

In December 2006, Delgado checked himself into a Veterans Administration hospital, where he stayed for six months after reporting being paranoid, then checked himself into the hospital five days before the deadly crash because he was suffering paranoid delusions, according to his attorney. During his opening statement in the trial's sanity phase, Delgado's lawyer told jurors that his client tried unsuccessfully to keep jobs and was "fearful that his co-workers were trying to kill him.''

Deputy District Attorney Paul Minnetian reserved his opening statement. Through a Spanish interpreter, Maria Valle testified that her son "received high honors'' when he graduated from high school and that he spent one year in college before joining the Marine Corps.