Deceased Suspect in Incident at 9700 North Wayside Identified July 21, 2008 - Houston police have learned the identity of a deceased suspect involved in an incident in the 9700 block of North Wayside about 12:05 a.m. on July 14. The Harris County Medical Examiner’s Office has identified the male as Marion Wilson (b/m, DOB: 10-24-55). His cause of death and results of toxicology tests are pending. HPD Homicide Division Sergeant W.P. Booth and Officer A.D. Brown reported: Officers received a call regarding a burglary of a residence in-progress at 9722 Galaxy and upon arrival saw a suspect inside the residence. When ordered outside, the suspect ran out the back door. Officer P. Mayorga-Guerrero Jr. chased after the suspect while a second officer tried to secure additional suspects. Officer Guerrero caught up to the suspect in a dark, wooded area and again ordered the suspect to surrender. The suspect instead began to fight with Officer Guerrero who was thrown to the ground by the much larger suspect and then pinned down. Officer Guerrero struck the suspect to get the suspect off of him and continued to struggle to handcuff the suspect. A second officer, R.P. Johnson, was eventually able to locate Officer Guerrero and the suspect, and deployed his Conducted Energy Device (CED) twice with negative effect on the suspect. Both officers again attempted to handcuff the suspect and were eventually successful in getting the suspect under control. The officers moved the suspect to a clearing near the wooded lot and called HFD paramedics who transported the suspect to Memorial Hermann Northwest Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 2:24 a.m. Officer Guerrero was transported to Memorial Hermann Hospital due to respiratory distress and was later released. Officer Johnson was not hurt. Both officers, assigned to the Northeast Patrol Division, were sworn in as police officers in January 2007. Four additional suspects at the residence on Galaxy were charged with felony possession of a controlled substance. As is customary in in-custody death incidents, the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions are investigating the case.



Update JFC/JC

JFC/GO

Inc #102423308



For additional information, please contact the HPD Public Affairs Division at 713-308-3200.