Detectives carry bag of evidence from E. 83rd St. building after cops gunned down a man with bipolar disorder who came at them with a knife, which was recovered at scene. (Iudici for News)

A knife-wielding man shot to death by police in the hallway of an upper East Side apartment building had a history of mental illness and may have been committing "suicide by cop," said NYPD sources Friday.

Spencer Parris, 39, ignored shouted commands to drop his weapon as he bore down on an armed officer in the narrow hallway of his E. 83rd St. building just after 11:15 p.m. Thursday, witnesses told police.

Advertisement

"I'm going to get you, I'm going to f---ing kill you," screamed Parris - who had bipolar illness - as he charged at the cop with a 13-inch knife poised above his head.

"Drop the knife! Drop the knife!" shouted Police Officer Micah Adler, a 10-year veteran assigned to the 19th Precinct. "Don't come any closer!"

Advertisement

Witnesses peering out their doors' peepholes told investigators that Parris had closed to within 3 feet of the officer before he was killed by a single shot, a police source said.

"I heard a big 'crack' - I never heard a real gunshot before, only in movies," said one neighbor who declined to give her name. "What are you going to do? He rushed at them with a knife."

Investigators said Parris, who was unemployed, spent the last few hours of his life happily drinking three UFOs - a light wheat beer - at the bar Ship of Fools on Second Ave. with his girlfriend, Denise Suria.

Suria, 28, and Parris fought on their way home, prompting the woman to storm out of their apartment and hail a cab, intent on spending the night with a friend in Brooklyn, police said. But when she realized she needed clothes from the apartment, she flagged down a police car.

When Suria and two cops first knocked on the door, there was 30 seconds of silence before Parris yelled that he was not coming out. Then, without warning, the door flew open and he rushed out with the knife in hand, police said.

As Parris zeroed in on Adler, the cop's partner - Kenneth Fuchs, a 16-year-veteran of the NYPD - moved Suria down the stairs and out of harm's way.

"She is grieving right now," said a woman who answered the phone at Suria's Long Island family home in Port Washington. "We are all so upset."

Suria told investigators Parris had been taking anti-anxiety and anti-psychotic medication after he attempted to overdose on pills in February, a police source said. That suicide attempt prompted her to take the knives out of their home, the source said.

Advertisement

Cops were called to the couple's apartment in February and March and had filed domestic incident reports, police said. Parris had been arrested for assault and driving while intoxicated in his former hometown of Fort Lee, N.J.

jlemire@nydailynews.com