A sport utility vehicle tumbled into an Imperial County irrigation canal one night last year, loaded beyond capacity with at least 20 people just smuggled into the country.

Advertisement

Six were killed. Authorities say the driver was a teenage boy who will go on trial this week in a case that has brought attention to the dangerous practice of human-smuggling rings hiring teens to work as foot guides and load drivers.

“There is this sense of invincibility, that nothing can happen to you,” said Jose Garcia, deputy special agent in charge of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in San Diego. “At that age, you don’t have the maturity to think of consequences.”

The accused driver, Alejandro Toribio Gama, faces charges of second-degree murder in state Superior Court in El Centro. The prosecutor declined to comment, and Toribio’s attorney did not return telephone messages.

The incident started shortly before 11 p.m. July 18, 2008. A police officer in the small town of Westmorland tried to make a traffic stop on the 1997 GMC Suburban, traveling with its lights off.

The driver accelerated, but the officer called off the pursuit, according to court records.

Forty-five minutes later, the SUV was found upside down in the irrigation canal. Six people, including a man, woman and their 10-year-old son, were dead. The boy’s 12-year-old sister was left an orphan.

Authorities say Toribio fled but was arrested two days later at a motel in nearby Brawley. He was reluctant to reveal his age but is believed to be 15 or 16.

Federal officials say smugglers exploit minors for their naivete and the ease with which some youths can be swayed by the promise of easy money, a sense of adventure and the allure of outlaw cool. In some cases, they are not as harshly punished if they get caught.

They are also hired more cheaply than adults, investigators say. A foot guide leading illegal immigrants across the border might be paid $150 to $250, while a human-smuggling load driver might earn $200 to $500 per load, Garcia said. Teens are also being used to smuggle drugs, taping the contraband to their bodies to earn $50 to $200 per trip, authorities say.

“Overall, they are doing it for the same reasons,” Garcia said of youths who get involved. “The thrill and the easy money, or what they perceive to be easy money. Because when you factor in all the risks, it isn’t really easy money. You are better off working at a McDonald’s.”

The crash happened outside Westmorland south of Highway 86, according to the California Highway Patrol.

The driver appeared to panic after the encounter with the police car, accelerating and eventually veering onto an unpaved road. A statement in court records from one of the occupants describes the scene inside before the accident.

“The occupants of the vehicle were screaming for the driver of the vehicle to stop . . . the driver refused and lost control of the vehicle,” the document reads.

Another passenger, a woman, reminded the driver that there were children inside as she begged him to stop. Some witnesses later stated that they had paid $2,000 to $2,500 to be smuggled into the country and taken to Los Angeles. They were picked up by the SUV after crossing the border on foot.

Once the Suburban plunged into the canal, it filled with water, court records say. Several people escaped, among them the driver. The six who died drowned, according to the county coroner’s office.

They included Andres Avelino Velasco, 40; his wife, Angelica Contreras Reyes, 33; and their 10-year-old son, Juan Velasco, from San Pablo de los Remedios, a village outside the city of Ixtlahuaca in Mexico state. Their 12-year-old daughter survived.

The others who died were Ofelia Govea, 31; Leobardo Gutierrez Aparicio, 29; and Milagros Guadalupe Reyes, 28. The bodies of the boy and Gutierrez were not found until more than 24 hours later, downstream from the crash site.

Toribio, a Mexican citizen, is being tried as an adult. A federal felony complaint filed against him last summer for illegal transportation of aliens is no longer being pursued.

Prosecution on human-smuggling charges for minors is rare, and this is a selling point for the smugglers recruiting them, Border Patrol agents say.

“The smuggling organizations are aware of our laws, and they know there is less likelihood of youths being prosecuted,” said Jose Morales, a spokesman for the Border Patrol’s San Diego sector.

Barring special circumstances, such as the endangerment of others, most juveniles who are in the United States illegally and are suspected of working for human smugglers are processed for removal from the country and not prosecuted, Morales said.

Leslie Berestein: (619) 542-4579; leslie.berestein@uniontrib.com