OKLAHOMA CITY — Police department officials say an officer who has been placed on administrative leave after shooting a teenager acted appropriately when he investigated gunshots at an apartment complex in Warr Acres.

"He was doing what any responsible law enforcement officer would do, which is to go over there and make sure nobody needed any help until the Warr Acres police officer could get there," police Capt. Steve McCool said.

Authorities said Daryl Ray Wilson, 18, was shot Saturday evening in an apartment complex parking in the northwestern Oklahoma City suburb. Officer Grant Brooks shot Wilson once in the head, McCool said.

Wilson remains at the University of Oklahoma Medical Center, but hospital officials would not confirm he is there and police officials would not disclose his condition.

Brooks, who has been with the department for about a year, was responding to an unrelated call when he heard gunshots in rapid succession a block away, McCool said.

Witnesses indicated the shots came from apartments within the Warr Acres city limits.

Upon arriving in the parking lot, Brooks saw a car with three people inside backing out of a parking space, McCool said. The car accelerated in reverse, and Brooks turned on his lights and siren and instructed the driver to stop. The car continued to accelerate in reverse and crashed into another vehicle.

Brooks approached the car with his gun drawn and ordered the vehicle's occupants to show their hands and get out, McCool said. After a short delay, Wilson emerged from the driver's side and made a sudden, upward movement with his right arm, McCool said.

Brooks reacted by firing twice, hitting Wilson in the head once, McCool said.

Police found a gun in the car, but don't think Wilson was armed when he stepped out, McCool said.

Shell casings found near the apartment complex are of the same type and caliber as the ammunition found in the gun, McCool said. Investigators are checking to determine if those shell casings are related to the gunshots Brooks heard.

The other two people in the car were questioned by police and released, McCool said.

McCool said Brooks acted appropriately by going into Warr Acres to investigate the gunshots after first asking dispatchers to notify Warr Acres police.

Brooks is on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.