A Bible-thumping, crazed ex-cop died in a gun battle with police as his children watched in horror in front of their Staten Island home today, police said.

Jason Aiello let loose a barrage of bullets while his wife cowered next to him in an SUV riddled with police shots.

He’d escaped from a psychiatric hospital less than 30 minutes before unloading at least seven bullets at cops who fired 19 back – shattering almost every window in the vehicle and striking Aiello in the head and back.

Cops had seized a 9 mm pistol from Aiello and were arresting him when he pulled a second gun and opened fire while sprinting toward the SUV, police said.

The retired NYPD sergeant and bodyguard for slain jeweler Louis Antonelli had cracked under the pressure of an FBI investigation linking him to the suspected mob-ordered hit of his boss in April, said his family.

“The investigation was weighing on him more than you can imagine,” said his cousin Doug Miglino. “It was killing him.”

“He knew he was having a nervous breakdown,” said his mom, Maureen Zavarelli, 59.

“He couldn’t take the pressure anymore. He was getting nervous and paranoid.”

A nurse at Bayley Seton Hospital called cops after Aiello, 36, walked out of the facility.

He came home to St. Mary’s Avenue clutching a black bible and preaching scripture, neighbors said.

“He was saying, ‘Follow me, I am the chosen one,’ ” said a neighbor.

Another 911 call came from Aiello’s mother, urging cops to respond after he took his wife, Rachel, and their three kids “hostage.”

Cops found him in the street with his wife, bundling his children, aged 7, 5 and 3, into a minivan.

“Do you believe in God?” he asked one officer before he opened fire, cops said.

“He fired off two rounds, missed the police officers, and jumped into his cousin’s SUV,” said a police source.

“His wife jumped into the passenger seat. She was afraid he was going to take off.”

Aiello shot at least five more times from inside the SUV and cops returned fire, hitting the ex-cop three times. His wife was uninjured.

“It was like a gunfight at the OK Corral,” said the Aiello family’s lawyer, Peter Antioco, who accused the cops of using excessive force.

The cops who were shot at, Sgt. Raul Irizarry and Officer Keith Stroming, were not hurt.

Aiello, a 15-year NYPD veteran who retired in 2006, was at the center of a federal investigation into the Genovese crime family after Antonelli, 43, was shot and killed by two men as he left a Staten Island restaurant after dining with Aiello.

The jeweler was thought to have been a Genovese associate.

joe.mollica@nypost.com