Staff Writer

Fosters Daily Democrat

CHARLESTOWN, N.H. (AP) _ A man who died in an apparent shootout with police was trying to protect his son, according to a friend who described him weeping at the thought of his son going back to jail.

A state trooper shot during the Saturday night confrontation remained in stable condition at a hospital with injuries described as not life-threatening.

Anthony Jarvis, 53, died after state police arrived at a home with a search warrant, Attorney General Kelly Ayotte said. She said Jarvis, a felon who had a weapon, would not comply with police orders to leave, so officers entered.

She said as they entered, shots were fired, injuring the trooper; Jarvis was found dead. The trooper, whose name has not been released, was in stable condition at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon.

Neighbors said they heard close to two dozen shots and that the officer was shot in the leg.

Shortly before the shooting, Jarvis' son, Jesse Jarvis, was arrested on a parole violation, the attorney general's office said.

Shelley Ryan, a convenience store clerk, said Anthony Jarvis became distraught last week while talking about his son.

"He stood right here, stood right in front of me, and cried at the thought of his son going to jail. He wanted to protect his son," said Ryan, 52.

Jarvis told her he expected police to serve his son with an arrest warrant.

"I guess Tony didn't want them to take him," Ryan told the New Hampshire Union Leader. "He just kept telling me they were coming to take his son, and cried. It takes a real man to stand there and show his emotions like that.

"He loved his kids. He proved that (Saturday) night."

Linda Finch-Rosado, whose daughter is married to one of Jarvis' sons, told a similar story. She said Jesse Jarvis "Had gotten into trouble and was hiding."

Finch-Rosado said Jarvis had his own history with law enforcement.

"He was paranoid," she said. "Of course, having a police record, he doesn't trust any police officer."

Mike Beaulieu, who grew up with Anthony Jarvis in Claremont, said Jarvis had been in prison but was trying to turn his life around. Several years ago, he became involved with an organization that provides parenting workshops, teen outreach programs and other family services in Sullivan County.

"A lot of people don't know him," Beaulieu said. "They read about the bad stuff, but he had a lot of good in him."

___