MOBILE, Alabama -- Sam Commins, then an officer with the Satsuma Police Department was not even on duty on July 29, 2008, when he joined in a high-speed chase that began on Interstate 65 in Baldwin County and zigzagged through northern Mobile County.

When the silver Dodge Charger driven by Hillary Bernard Baldwin finally stopped on the Interstate 165 connector in Prichard, he and passenger Jermaine Gaillard got out of the car and began to run. The dashboard camera of the officer's car caught what happened next: The patrol car turned over a grassy median and then veered to the left and ran over the unarmed Gaillard.

Gaillard later died at a hospital, and a Mobile County grand jury cleared Commins of criminal wrongdoing. The officer, who at the time had been with the department since 2003, now works for another law enforcement agency.

But next month, more than six years after the incident, a civil jury in U.S. District Court will decide whether the officer's actions constituted a federal civil rights violation. To prevail, the plaintiff must prove that Commins acted intentionally and as not merely negligent. Commins also faces a wrongful-death count, under which the plaintiff must prove that the officer was "deliberately indifferent" to the victim's life.

"The officer admits in his deposition that he did not even know the pursuit polices in play at the time," said Jubal Hamil, one of the attorney's for Gaillard's brother, who filed the lawsuit on behalf of the estate.

The collision was the third of Commins' career. One of the previous wrecks also occurred during a high-speed chase.

Andrew Rutens, an attorney for Commins, said he could not go into details of the case but added that Gaillard's death was an accidental tragedy.

"Officer Commins did not intentionally strike and kill Mr. Gaillard," he said. "This was a police pursuit, and unfortunately, Mr. Gaillard died."

Chase hit 100 mph

According to court records and news accounts at the time, the chase began in Baldwin County shortly after deputies had pulled over the vehicle south of the Rabun exit at about 7:30 p.m. upon receiving a tip that the men were carrying 2 kilograms of cocaine. While deputies were questioning the men about drugs, the driver sped away.

Court records indicate that the chase proceeded south on I-65, exceeding 100 mph at times - so fast that the officers were having trouble keeping up. At the 16 mile marker, according to the police account, the men in the Charger began throwing bags of drugs out of the car window.

The chase continued onto the I-165 connector. Commins, whose shift had ended at between 6 p.m. and 6:30 p.m., was on his way home when he learned of the pursuit and joined the chase. Mobile County sheriff's deputies used a spike strip to flatten one of the tires and stop the car. The collision occurred after Gaillard left the car and started running away.

Police arrested the driver, Baldwin, who later pleaded guilty to a drug conspiracy charge in federal court and is serving a 15-year sentence.

It did not take authorities long to conclude that Gaillard was at fault.

"As they were arriving, the two suspects darted out between the first vehicle and the second vehicle," Mobile County Sheriff Sam Cochran told the Press-Register the day after the incident. "The Satsuma officer veered his vehicle, and one suspect was struck by that vehicle."

Then-Mobile County District Attorney John Tyson Jr. maintained that Gaillard ran in front of the Satsuma police car.

"The preliminary indications are that the officer involved -- that is, the driver of the car that struck this young man -- is not at fault," he said at the time. "That is, he was doing what was appropriate for him to be doing, and what we have here is an unavoidable collision."

A state trooper investigator concluded that Gaillard entered the travel path of the officer's vehicle. The defense contends that Gaillard fell as he entered the squad car's path.

Dueling experts

Both sides have hired expert witnesses to bolster their case, and both sides have sought to have the opposing expert testimony excluded.

Anthony Sasso, an engineer who reconstructed the incident for the plaintiff, will testify that Commins did not step on his brake until 11/2 seconds after his car hit Gaillard.

Former Tallahassee (Fla.) Police Chief Melvin Tucker, who has served as an expert witness in numerous case, prepared a report for the plaintiff concluding that Commins violated standard procedures in pursuing the Dodge Charger despite the risk to the public. He said in an interview that the dashboard video will be crucial.

"I think that's going to be very significant for the jury to look at," he said. "Boom, down he goes. The car runs over him, and he dies. He is not armed. He's fleeing, and he's not posing an immediate threat to anyone."

Tucker said some 600 innocent bystanders die every year as a result of police chases.

"In this case, you didn't have a violent crime. You didn't have people running after robbing and hurting people," he said. "The danger created by the pursuit was greater than the danger of allowing them to get away."

Chief U.S. District Judge Williams Steele denied a defense request to prohibit Tucker from testifying but ruled that the witness cannot voice an opinion about the officer's intent because that is the ultimate question the jury must decide.

The judge also denied efforts by Gaillard's lawyers to block testimony from a pair of defense witnesses.

Joey Parker, according to court records, is expected to testify that Gaillard fell before the Satsuma squad car struck him.

Steele ruled that Parker can testify.

The judge did limit the testimony of another proposed defense witness, Ken Katsaris, a law enforcement and private security consultant. The witness can testify about his opinion that there is no evidence that Commins was experiencing an adrenaline effect and that the vehicle pursuit had ended at the time of the collision.

The trial will begin on Nov. 4 immediately following jury selection.