A 20-year-old man armed with a nearly foot-long kitchen knife was shot to death by cops during a dramatic clash in his Brooklyn apartment Saturday, police said.

The violence unfolded after NYPD detectives went to interview Darryl Battle about a check-fraud investigation around 9 a.m., police said.

Advertisement

Battle let the plainclothes officers into his family's apartment on Decatur St. in Ocean Hill, but five minutes later, his niece ran out of the two-story walkup.

"She was screaming at the top of her lungs, 'Why did you shoot him?!'" said a neighbor, the Rev. Dr. Kevin Bond. "'Why did you kill him?!'"

Advertisement

The two detectives, who are assigned to the upper East Side's 19th Precinct, had tracked Battle after he mistakenly left his ID at a Chase Bank, where he allegedly tried to cash a forged check for $1,003.50, a police source said.

A police source said Battle was "very calm and cooperative" when the two detectives entered, but when they said they would not stop pursuing the case against him he became "intense."

Battle excused himself to get a glass of water from the kitchen and emerged with an 11-inch knife.

One detective, an 18-year veteran, backed out of the apartment while demanding Battle drop the knife. The other detective, a trained hostage negotiator and 21-year veteran, tried to reason with Battle, police said.

"It doesn't have to go this way. Put down the knife," he said. "It's going to make it worse."

"I'm not going anywhere," Battle reportedly responded.

"Just let us leave," the detective countered.

"No, you're not," Battle said.

Advertisement

As Battle bore down, closing to just 6 feet away, the detective fired a single shot from his Smith & Wesson 9-mm. pistol, cops said. The shot hit Battle in the chest, and he died a short time later at Kings County Hospital.

"The detective was backed in the corner and unable to get to the apartment's only exit," a police source said. "When [Battle] got that close, he felt he had to fire."

The detective who fired the shot passed a Breathalyzer test, a police source said.

"It's shocking it happened to him at home," said Battle's niece, Sho'shonda Smith, 29. "He's not that kind of person. ... He's a law-abiding citizen."

Battle had been arrested previously on charges of criminal mischief, larceny and turnstile jumping, an NYPD source said.

Angry neighbors blasted the NYPD for using deadly force.

Advertisement

"[The police] are going to say, 'My life was in danger,'" said neighbor Mel Hales, 56. "That's probably going to be their get-out-of-jail-free card."

jlemire@nydailynews.com