The crash that ended 19-year-old

Niccolo Hubbard's

life Tuesday morning in Mayfield Heights followed a high-speed police chase that began in Oakwood.

According to police, a few minutes after midnight, an Oakwood patrolman saw Hubbard's blue 2002 Chevrolet Monte Carlo run into a curb on Broadway Avenue. The officer stopped Hubbard and walked up to his car. He got close enough to the car to smell alcohol, then Hubbard sped away.

Hubbard drove down two dead-end streets and spun around on both. He drove through yards and drove head-on toward the Oakwood police car, which had to swerve out of the way.

Hubbard then headed up Brainard Road and entered Interstate 271. The Oakwood officer, deeming the pursuit not worth the risks, ended the chase and exited the highway at Miles Road.

An Orange sargeant spotted the speeding car on I-271 and turned on his lights and siren. He pulled up behind it. Speeds reached more than 100 mph. A rear tire blew out on Hubbard's car and the officer backed off.

Hubbard attempted to exit I-271 at Ohio 322 west, but he lost control in the cloverleaf curve. The Monte Carlo flew off the pavement into a large earthen basin. The car slammed to the ground, rolled over and threw Hubbard out. The driverless car then rolled up the side of the grassy basin and back down over Hubbard, killing him, Mayfield Heights Sgt. Gregory Michl said.

Mayfield Heights police did not join the chase. Officers there are prohibited from chasing anyone but the most serious offenders who pose an immediate threat to public safety. Orange officers are allowed to pursue erratic drivers.

Police found unopened beer cans in the car. The Cuyahoga County coroner's office will test Hubbard's blood for alcohol.

Police are asking anyone who witnessed the crash to call 440-442-2323.

Michl said just one witness has called, a man from Buffalo, N.Y., who was on the highway heading home from the Radiohead concert at Blossom Music Center. He saw the chase and sparks flying from the tireless left rim. He didn't see the crash.

"It has been rather mentally taxing knowing I saw the end of a person's life before my eyes," the witness wrote in a post on Cleveland.com.

Hubbard's 58-year-old father, Richard C. Hubbard III, died Dec. 23, 2002, of complications from cancer. The trial lawyer represented people who couldn't afford legal counsel and companies with national concerns during his 29-year career.

In 2000, with Niccolo "Nicco" and his sister, Gabriela, the family won Father-Son and Adult-Child contests in the children's age categories in a golf competition sponsored by the Cleveland Metroparks. Since his death, amateur golfers in Cleveland have competed for a Richard C. Hubbard III Trophy.