The father of a Waukegan High School senior shot and killed by police asked Thursday for calm in the community while authorities investigate what happened.

"Don't do anything hasty. Calm down. Let the investigation run its course," Curtis Lewis said at a news conference with police and city officials.

Advertisement

His son Jeffrey was shot by police four times in the chest and twice in the arms during a domestic dispute Wednesday, Lake County Coroner Richard Keller said. The 17-year-old died in his front lawn after allegedly attacking a police officer with a hammer, officials said.

The shooting angered neighbors and family members who gathered near Jeffrey Lewis' home Wednesday. Many said they were skeptical police needed to shoot the teenager and complained that African-Americans have been unfairly targeted for abuse by authorities. Lewis was black. The officer allegedly struck with the hammer is black, and the officer who shot Lewis is white, police said.

Advertisement

Police Chief Bill Biang offered his condolences to Lewis' family and defended the actions of his officers.

"The officer had a split-second to make a decision," Biang said. "These officers believe deadly force was justified."

The Lake County Major Crimes Task Force is investigating the incident, which occurred about 2:15 p.m. Wednesday outside Lewis' home in the 500 block of Helmholz Avenue.

The teenager's mother called police to help break up a fight that had been brewing all day between Lewis and his 23-year-old brother, according to police. Lewis allegedly struck one of the police officers in the head with a hammer and reared back to hit him again, prompting the second officer to shoot multiple times, police said.

Biang said part of the incident was recorded on video in a police car and authorities are reviewing the tape. Mayor Richard Hyde said the video shows "the police officer had blood all over his face."

Police would not release the names of the officers. Both were placed on administrative leave, which is routine, Biang said.

The injured officer had been out of the Police Academy for only five weeks, police said. He received several staples in his head and was released Wednesday from Lake Forest Hospital, police said. The other officer was treated for stress and released, police said.

Police said Lewis' brother would not be charged.

Advertisement

At least 100 people gathered outside Lewis' home Thursday night for a prayer vigil. They hugged, held hands and lit candles, comforting family members, including Lewis' brother. As the vigil wore on, some expressed anger at what they called excessive police force against young black men.

Lewis' mother, Margaret Rollins, declined through friends to comment Thursday. She spoke to WGN-TV Wednesday and disputed that her son had attacked the officer with a hammer.

Ald. Sam Cunningham said Rollins had suffered a stroke recently, and Lewis and his brother had been caring for her.

Lewis played football for Waukegan High School last year, said Principal Steve Hamlin.

"He was a popular student and a good athlete, and he will be missed," Hamlin said. "We're doing everything we can to support the family and the community."

The school sent grief counselors to Lewis' home Thursday, and counselors were available during football practice, Hamlin said.

Advertisement

"He was my baby," Curtis Lewis said. "He was a good kid. I have no idea what he was doing."

----------

lblack@tribune.com