A man shot and killed Sunday night by a Chicago police officer in the Garfield Ridge neighborhood was armed and confrontational, authorities said Monday.

Marcus Landrum, 18, would have turned 19 on Monday. He was shot shortly after 10 p.m. near West 45th Street and South Lamon Avenue at LeClaire Courts, a public housing complex.

Advertisement

The incident provoked an angry response from residents of the complex, requiring more officers to be called to the scene for crowd control, police said.

It was Chicago's 29th police-involved shooting this year and its 10th fatal shooting, according to the Independent Police Review Authority.

Advertisement

Police were responding to reports of a burglary involving three males on bicycles when they spotted three who matched the description. Officers caught two boys, 12 and 16, but the third male fled on his bike, then on foot, into LeClaire Courts, police said.

An "officer discharged his weapon when he was confronted by an armed offender," a police news release said. Police said a gun was found at the scene.

Landrum was pronounced dead at Mt. Sinai Hospital shortly before 11 p.m. The 12-year-old and 16-year-old were not arrested because the residence had not been burglarized, police said.

At her home Monday morning, Landrum's mother, Wanda Taylor, tearfully looked at pictures of her oldest son and said the family had planned a barbecue for his birthday Monday. "He was a good guy; he just got caught up," she said.

Taylor said Landrum had a 2-year-old daughter and was expecting another child. He planned to attend vocational school in the fall after receiving a GED degree in May.

At LeClaire Courts on Monday, residents and Landrum's friends wrote messages on a memorial beneath a Happy Birthday banner. Many residents expressed anger that police had used deadly force on the teen and questioned whether he was armed. Other neighbors said they saw Landrum running from officers with his hand in his pocket.

"They didn't have to shoot him at all," said Lori Camps, who lives across the street from where Landrum was killed. "This is a day his family is supposed to be celebrating, and now they've got to make funeral arrangements. It's sad, it's uncalled for."

The Independent Police Review Authority, which probes shootings involving Chicago police officers, was investigating the incident and talking to witnesses Monday, said spokesman Mark Payne.

Advertisement

------------

rmitchum@tribune.com

jgorner@tribune.com