IRVINE – An Irvine man who was shot after pointing a military assault weapon at SWAT officers during a police standoff died early Thursday morning at Western Medical Center-Santa Ana, police said.

Steven Tracy Duigou, 43, spent more than a day in critical condition before succumbing to his injuries. An autopsy report is being conducted to determine the extent of his injuries and his exact cause of death.

The District Attorney’s Office is currently investigating the incident, which is standard procedure for any officer-involved shootings, Irvine police Lt. Rick Handfield said.

The standoff between Duigou and the police began just before 10 p.m. Tuesday, when his wife told police that he had hit her in their apartment at Heritage Point in the 100 block of Topeka, Handfield said. Officers ushered the woman and her three children out of the apartment, but Duigou remained barricaded in a bedroom.

Police called in Irvine and Tustin SWAT units after hearing a gunshot from the bedroom fired in their direction. Negotiators reached Duigou by phone, but were unable to calm him down.

After a nearly two-hour standoff, police say, Duigou walked out the front door of his apartment at 11:41 p.m. holding what appeared to be a military assault rifle. He dropped to a crouching position and aimed at the SWAT officers, Handfield said, at which point he was shot by police. It is still unclear whether he was hit by Irvine or Tustin police.

Police are still not commenting on how many rounds were fired at Duigou, citing the ongoing investigation into the shooting. But at least two dozen bullet holes were left at the apartment, and several residents reported hearing a loud, rapid volley of 10 to 15 shots.

The standoff wasn’t Duigou’s first run-in with Irvine police. On Wednesday, Handfield acknowledged some “unusual” past contacts with him stretching back several years, but declined to elaborate today.

In 1997, Duigou was sentenced to 20 days in jail for two charges of driving under the influence, according to Orange County Superior Court records. In 1999, he was sentenced to 10 days in jail after being charged with battery against a cohabitant, records show. And in July, he was put in a diversion program after being arrested on suspicion of public intoxication, records show.

A search of Duigou’s apartment Wednesday morning by a team of investigators from the Irvine Police Department, the District Attorney’s Office and the Orange County sheriff’s forensic team turned up several more weapons.

Duigou’s violent death came as a surprise to some who knew him. Tony Huerta said he knew Duigou from his time spent working as a master technician at Foothill Ranch Chevrolet. He described Duigou as a funny man who used to entertain his co-workers by playing the accordion and singing at work functions.

“I just can’t see him going postal like that. It’s just not like him,” Huerta said. “He was a funny guy, a character. I wouldn’t say he was outgoing, but he was very friendly.”

Huerta said Duigou had worked several different jobs since leaving Foothill Ranch Chevrolet earlier this year, including a security job and a position at an automotive repair facility.

“I understand he lost a couple of jobs after he left Foothill,” Huerta said.

Some of Duigou’s neighbors at the apartment complex knew little about him, describing him as standoffish.

Duigou’s family could not be immediately reached for comment.

Contact the writer: 949-553-2911 or semery@ocregister.com