Inside St. Procopius Catholic School, the altar for the dead stands outside the kindergarten class, covered with fragrant marigolds and candy skulls, and topped with the smiling faces of Anthony and Alizay Marchan. Under the photos, Anthony's baseball trophy rests beside Alizay's silver Cinderella slippers.

When parents and teachers saw the elaborate altar created for Thursday's Day of the Dead celebration, they wept anew for the two children, who were fatally shot on Sept. 15 by their father, police Officer Dannie Marchan. He then killed himself.

Advertisement

Eleven Chicago Public Schools students have been killed this school year by gunfire, most recently Julian King, nephew of Hollywood star Jennifer Hudson. The violence hit a Catholic school for the first time with the deaths of the Marchan children, both St. Procopius students.

Anguished teachers and students sought refuge in faith and daily prayers, but even faith couldn't solve the mystery of why a father would kill his own children.

Advertisement

Six weeks after the tragedy, some normalcy has returned to the dual-language Catholic school, which teaches its 200 mostly Mexican-American students in English and Spanish. But the pain is still raw, and tortured questions linger.

"I walk by the altar every day, very quickly. But I just don't feel ready to look at those pictures," kindergarten teacher Nohemi Ruiz said. "To look in their eyes, it still hurts."

At the small, tight-knit school, the loss of Anthony, 9, and Alizay, 7, seemed to affect each person in a different way. A kindergarten teacher confessed to feeling rage at Marchan and explained how she came to terms with his sin. For the 8th-grade English teacher, the murder-suicide inspired questions about his faith. In Anthony's 4th-grade class, a 9-year-old girl made profound connections from past to present, linking the 1945 atomic bombing of Hiroshima, Japan, to her classmate's death.

Principal Adam Dufault, 29, a former teacher only in his position for two weeks, faced his biggest crisis when he told his students Anthony and Alizay had been shot.

"It's something you hope you never have to do. It's certainly going to be something I'm never going to forget. It's one of the worst things I've ever had to do in my life," he said.

When he heard about the shootings, Dufault called St. Procopius' pastor, Rev. Tim Howe, and the superintendent of Catholic schools, Sister Mary Paul McCaughey.

Alizay and her father died that day. Anthony remained in the hospital for a week, dying on Sept. 23.

After arriving at the school, the leaders divided the students into two groups, with Anthony and Alizay's classmates from 2nd and 4th grade taken to Dufault's office while the rest of the school reported to the gymnasium.

Advertisement

With Howe and McCaughey behind him, Dufault recalled saying this: "Something sad happened. A very sad incident happened that resulted in Anthony being seriously injured. Alizay has passed away."

"He let the kids know what happened, that they had been hurt, without going into details," Howe said. "He let them know it had been far away from school and they were safe.

"Our struggle was trying to strike that balance between maintaining routine and letting kids know that they're safe, that their regular life is OK and hasn't been destroyed."

For two weeks, grief counselors were stationed at the school for teachers and students who needed them. Dufault said counselors used every available classroom and empty corner for talks and consoling. Students immersed themselves in prayer, often several times a day, for Anthony and Alizay in heaven, for the father to be forgiven, for the mother to be healed.

After the triple funeral on Sept. 29, 4th-grade English teacher Rebecca Loduca asked her students to write letters to Anthony and Alizay as a way of saying their last goodbye. Students put the notes inside balloons, brought them outside and released them.

"They seemed to take comfort in their faith and in knowing that Anthony is together with his sister and dad in heaven with God," Loduca said.

Advertisement

Kindergarten teacher Ruiz, who taught Alizay, said she initially was furious with Dannie Marchan. She recalled how he had come to the school for career day and spoke about being a police officer. Marchan told the students his gun was for protection and he tried not to use it. Ruiz kept replaying that memory in her head and wondered: How could he do that to his own children? How could God let that happen?

Ruiz said she reached a turning point when she confronted a grief counselor in frustration, shouting those questions.

"It's still difficult for me to understand why he did it. I think he lost control of reality. So I don't feel anger now. I feel pity," she said.

Eighth-grade teacher Brian O'Rourke said he is still sorting his emotions.

"I know this whole thing has changed me. It's too early to tell how," he said. "I teach religion, and we talk about the mystery of faith. At the same time, I'm learning how I can feel so disappointed and confused."

In a recent 4th-grade lesson, teacher Guizela Solis discussed the book "Sadako and the Thousand Cranes," the true story of a Japanese girl who lived in Hiroshima. Sadako developed leukemia after the atomic bombs went off and made paper cranes in the hopes she would recover.

Advertisement

Solis asked her 4th-graders to explain Sadako's faith.

Evangelina Durruthy immediately connected the story to Anthony's hospitalization after the shooting.

"Is it like when we had faith that Anthony might recover?" Evangelina asked.

"Yes. Perfecto!" Solis said.

With the Day of the Dead approaching, Dufault and teachers agreed the celebration planned for Thursday would allow students to honor the memory of Anthony and Alizay and reinforce the Catholic belief of resurrection and eternal life. The Day of the Dead or Dia de Los Muertos is a festive Mexican celebration to remember loved ones who have died.

"In our culture, we believe the dead come back that day," Ruiz said. "So we imagine Anthony will come back and see his trophy, and Alizay will put on those little shoes and dance. That's how we will always remember them."

Advertisement

----------

maramirez@tribune.com