Staff Writer

Wicked Local

Calif. man accused of bilking staples with phony gift certificates

A California man has been accused of using fraudulent Staples gift certificate numbers to fleece the Framingham office supplies giant out of more than $200,000.

Federal prosecutors say Tin Bahn, 40, of Monterey Park, Calif., learned in early 2005 that he could obtain Staples gift certificates by using valid gift certificate codes and altering several digits. Prosecutors claim he used the system to obtain gift certificates that had either been assigned to legitimate customers or had not yet been assigned.

Prosecutors claim Bahn used nearly $23,000 of those certificates to buy Staples products online, which he later resold. To avoid detection, he placed the Staples orders using several aliases and addresses, they said. He also sold about $193,000 of gift certificates to a person in Illinois who was unaware of how Bahn obtained the gift certificates, prosecutors said. The actions caused a loss of about $216,000 to Staples, prosecutors said.

Bahn was charged with four counts of wire fraud in an information that was filed on Tuesday in Boston federal court.

Cohasset man to head Quincy information technology company

QUINCY – ADS Financial Services, of Batterymarch Park in Quincy, an information technology company that serves financial companies, promoted Erik Golz of Cohasset to be its new president and chief operating officer. Golz, who has worked for ADS since 2000, was most recently the company’s executive vice president. The company employs about 50 people.

Weymouth native named CEO of power plants’ owner

WEYMOUTH – The owner of the Fore River power plant in Weymouth and the Mystic plant in Everett has promoted a Weymouth native to be its new CEO. US Power Generating Co. said on Tuesday that it has appointed Mark Sudbey, who now lives in Connecticut, as the New York company’s new chief executive. Sudbey had been its president and chief operating officer. Sudbey replaces Jacob Worenklein, the founder of the company, who resigned to pursue other opportunities.

Four colleges receive low-cost bonds from Bay State agency

MassDevelopment has issued nearly $95 million in low-cost, tax-exempt bond financing on behalf of four colleges in the state: Brandeis University in Waltham, the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Lasell College in Newton and Regis College in Weston.

Brandeis will use proceeds from a $47.5 million bond package to build a 50,000-square-foot addition to its science complex, a parking garage and a 200-bed dorm hall. The New England Conservatory of Music will use a $22.6 million bond issue for repairs and improvements to its four main campus buildings. Lasell plans to use $14.7 million in bond proceeds to build two dorm halls totaling 60,000 square feet. Regis is using $10 million to build a new athletic field and renovate existing facilities.