GREENSBORO — After months of silence caused by an investigation, Guilford County Sheriff BJ Barnes addressed the media Monday on details of the fatal shooting by a deputy of a Pleasant Garden man in September.

The SBI investigated — and District Attorney Doug Henderson last Friday cleared — Deputy Vic Maynard in the fatal Sept. 29 shooting of Dylan William Hartsfeld, 25.

Barnes took advantage of his first opportunity to talk about the shooting after the investigation to defend the actions of his deputy and chronicle the events of that day.

“Since this incident occurred, there have been e-mails and threats against this office from those who are uninformed and perceive themselves as being above the law,” Barnes said of reaction to the shooting.

“Some news media have shown stories that have caused doubt as to whether the officer was at fault in this shooting, which caused others to respond in a manner that is not productive or based on the truth.”

Dylan Hartsfeld was shot outside his home at 307 E. Steeple Chase Road just after 3 p.m. Sept. 29 when EMS and fire officials had responded to a 911 call by his father — Bill Hartsfeld — about his son falling down a flight of stairs and possible injuring his shoulder, according to accounts of the case.

Barnes said deputies were called to assist the other emergency personnel as a precaution because of a history of alcohol-related calls at the home.

He played a tape of the radio communications of the incident, in which EMS and fire personnel can be overheard saying they had arrived at the residence, only to be told by Bill Hartsfeld that his son had run into the woods, with what one responder described as a hockey stick.

After Maynard arrived, Barnes said he talked with emergency personnel on the scene and Bill Hartsfeld, before Dylan Hartsfeld emerged from the side of the home with a 2-foot bush ax, with a footlong blade.

“The suspect had it raised in a manner to enable him to attack and assault,” Barnes said of the tool, which he had on display Monday.

“The officer felt his life was in danger, (as well as) that of the chief and the firemen that were there, as well as the father.”

Barnes said Bill Hartsfeld told his son to drop the tool and Maynard repeated numerous commands at Dylan Hartsfeld to ‘stop,’ ‘freeze,’ ‘drop your weapon’ among other numerous commands to no avail.

“(Dylan Hartsfeld) never said anything but raising this (the bush ax) and advancing toward the officer,” Barnes said. “He kept advancing in a quick pace towards them and the officer had to fire.”

Barnes said Maynard shot Dylan Hartsfeld twice in the torso from about 10 to 12 feet away, but that based on his training — he could have opened fire sooner.

“This officer, by his own admission, allowed this individual to get closer to him than he probably should have,” Barnes said.

“Unlike on TV, you can’t count on hitting them in the leg or wherever,” Barnes said. “We shot center mass because that’s how we train.”

He said using pepper spray or a Taser were not viable options because of the distance between Maynard and Dylan Hartsfeld. Officials have also said Dylan Hartsfeld had a 0.16 blood alcohol content when he was shot.

A message left for Bill Hartsfeld was not returned Monday evening. On Friday, he said he was disappointed and disagreed with the district attorney’s decision not to charge the deputy, but offered no other comment. His attorney, Seth Cohen, also declined comment.

Dylan Hartsfeld served with the Army in both Iraq and Afghanistan. Family and friends have said he may have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, though he was never told he had the disorder.

“Many people have questioned us as to why we had to shoot a veteran,” Barnes said. “But that had nothing to do with it. He had every chance to stop, but he didn’t.”

Barnes said the threats to his office remain under investigation, though no arrests have been made.

Contact Ryan Seals

at 373-7077 or ryan.seals@news-record.com