SIOUX CITY -- The woman killed while fleeing police last week had cocaine in her system and a blood-alcohol level of .228, Sioux City Police Chief Joe Frisbie said on Friday.

The officer who pursued the 34-year-old Sioux City woman, Frisbie said, was following proper police procedure and did nothing wrong. The woman's husband, Kelvin Cooper, said he doesn't know why the mother of four didn't stop for police.

Cassandra A. Cooper died as a result of injuries she suffered in the early morning hours of Oct. 3 when she crashed a Pontiac Bonneville into a utility pole at the intersection of George and West 21st streets. Police said the chase happened about 1:44 a.m., when an officer clocked Cooper going 53 mph in a 30 mph zone on Military Road and Casselman Street in Sioux City.

Although Sioux City Police Chief Joe Frisbie called the crash a "senseless tragedy," he said at a press conference Friday that the crash happened less than 20 seconds after the officer turned on his lights.

Cooper initially appeared as though she would stop, police said, but continued east along Military Road. She accelerated to high speeds near Sun Valley Golf Course, quickly lost control of the vehicle and crashed at a curve in the road.

" It was a very, very short period of time -- almost no time to react at all," Frisbie said. "The officer was already backing off and getting ready to shut down, because he realized that this was going to be a dangerous situation."

When the officer turned on his lights and attempted to pull over the vehicle, Cooper sped up to 79 mph, Frisbie said. Police originally said Cooper reached speeds of up to 100 mph during the chase.

Cooper, who was barred from driving in Iowa, died from injuries she suffered when her vehicle hit the second power pole and she was thrown in the car, Frisbie said, citing a preliminary report by the Iowa State Patrol.

"If she'd been wearing a seat belt, her life may have been spared and she may not have suffered any injury," Frisbie said the report concluded. "It's a tragedy, it really truly is. What a senseless loss of life."

Cooper's husband said he thought Cassandra Cooper might have been worried about repercussion of her driving record, he said it was hard to know.

"God, I'm still just in disbelief," Kelvin Cooper said.

The 1998 Pontiac Bonneville his wife was driving belonged to a friend, Cooper said, who told him Cassandra Cooper had stolen the keys.

"(I wish) she would have pulled over," Cooper said. "Or, (the police) would have let it go and pursued her the next day or the car.... I'm just very alarmed by the whole situation, on the outcome."

Although he felt his wife isn't completely innocent, Cooper said he wished laws would change so police wouldn't chase vehicles within city limits.

Sioux City Police Department policy authorizes up to two officers to pursue a motorist for excessive speed or when there's a "reasonable articulate suspicion" that the driver is under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Police should continuously evaluate the pursuit, the policy states, and may call off the chase if the risks outweigh the benefits of an immediate arrest.

"We have to enforce the law," Frisbie said. "I just hope that most people that we pull over don't make those kind of irrational decisions to run from the law."