VANCOUVER -- An armed man shot and killed by police during a standoff early this month fired once toward several officers, prompting four others to fire 19 rounds at him, the Clark County Sheriff's Office said today.

Sgt. Scott Schanaker declined to say how many bullets struck Robert Kenneth Miller, 43, early Oct. 7. Three deputies and one Vancouver police officer shot at Miller after he refused to put down a handgun he was holding to his head or cooperate any other way, but instead raised the gun and fired toward officers.

Police later found a handwritten note indicating suicidal desires in Miller's 2001 Dodge pickup and journal entries indicating suicidal tendencies, Schanaker said.

Another handwritten note was found in his pants pocket. It stated where police could find his truck near his former girlfriend's apartment and how to contact his relatives, Schanaker said.

About three hours before the shooting, Miller, armed with a handgun, went to the woman's Hazel Dell-area apartment threatening to kill her and himself, Schanaker said. The woman fled unharmed and Miller left, returning to a relative's Orchards-area home, where he was staying.

Deputies found Miller in the backyard, lying on his side between a wooden shed and a fence, with most of his body hidden behind the shed, and the gun pressed to his head.

Police negotiated with him for about an hour as he smoked cigarettes. After he finished the last cigarette, he raised his gun and fired toward the north, Schanaker said. Four officers who were southwest of Miller returned fire.

After the shooting, five deputies and a Vancouver officer were put on paid leave, which is routine in officer-involved shootings. Five remain on leave.

Investigators think Miller intended to kill his former girlfriend and himself at her apartment, but that the plan was foiled when she ran from him outside her home.

Miller's journal, found at his relative's home, documented many of his personal and legal problems and suicidal thoughts.

The investigation into the shooting is ongoing.

-- Holley Gilbert: holleygilbert@news.oregonian.com