A young receptionist who was the victim of a Chinatown knife attack said Friday she endured months of torment by her crazed ex-boyfriend before his hired thugs left half her face in tatters.

"He was saying he was going to destroy me, kill me, destroy my face," said Artende Gjeli, 26, as she recovered at her family's home in Lodi, N.J.

Advertisement

Her left cheek still held together with 14 stitches, Gjeli vowed to stand up to her spurned boyfriend, Aleksander Vacaj.

"I'm alive. God gave me this life. He will take it from me. [Vacaj] he's not going to do it," Gjeli said, speaking publicly for the first time about the Wednesday attack.

Advertisement

"And if [Vacaj] wanted to take my life, he should have done it himself. He should have shown himself to be a man," she said in a composed tone.

As Gjeli spoke, New York also got a first look at her hero - the off-duty detective who foiled the attack and saved her life. Detective Martin Carrano emerged from his Long Island home with his wife.

Cops are looking to question Vacaj, 32, who has not been charged with a crime.

But Gjeli believes he was behind the two men who showed up - armed with a knife and a broken beer bottle - at the Baxter St. luxury condo building where she works.

The attack was stopped by Carrano, who shot one of the suspects to death and wounded the other.

Gjeli said the assault was the culmination of months of terror at the hands of Vacaj. The couple split in February, but he would not accept the breakup.

He stalked her, threatened her and drove by her home, most recently on Sunday.

Gjeli said she called the cops on May 17 after Vacaj ambushed her in an Astoria coffee house and slapped her for refusing his advances.

Advertisement

The threats didn't stop. Wednesday afternoon Vacaj called her at work so often she was afraid she would be fired from the Baxter St. condo.

So she called detectives at Queens' 114th Precinct investigating her May 17 police report. Carrano answered the call and offered to stop by after work. Gjeli denied reports that she was dating the 20-year NYPD veteran.

Gjeli was talking with Carrano when ex-con Eugene Morales and pal Andres Martinez, 22, showed up.

Her attackers told Carrano, "'We have nothing to do with you. We are here to get her,'" Gjeli said.

"I pulled back or I was dead...I fought for my life. I did the best I could," she said.

Carrano came at them, gun drawn, and ordered them to back off, yelling he was a cop, she said.

Advertisement

They didn't and Carrano shot 10 times, striking both suspects. Morales died at the scene. Martinez was recuperating at St. Vincent's Hospital.

"The shooting was to save my life, and his life," she said, posing for a photo.

Gjeli made sure the 14 stitches on her left cheek didn't show. "I don't want to make the person who did it happy."

oyaniv@nydailynews.com