Preliminary autopsy results indicate that a man killed Sunday afternoon after fleeing local law enforcement died as a result of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to a Lee County Coroner statement. The investigation is ongoing.

The Alabama Bureau of Investigation was called to investigate the death of Darius Rivers, 29, of Kennesaw, Ga., on behalf of the Opelika Police Department, Lee County Coroner Bill Harris said Monday afternoon.

According to a release from the coroner, at approximately 3:30 p.m. Sunday, an Opelika police officer made contact with a man wanted on an outstanding warrant from another jurisdiction. The man fled and a pursuit by Opelika police officers ensued. The pursuit continued along several Opelika streets, ending on Hanson Street when the man turned into a residential driveway.

“Officers heard a single gunshot which came from the fleeing vehicle prior to the vehicle entering the wood line of the residential property,” the release states.

According to the release after additional officers arrived, they entered the vehicle and found Rivers with an apparent gunshot wound to the head. A female traveling with Rivers was taken into custody by Opelika police, the release states. Lee County Chief Deputy Coroner Gene Manning pronounced Rivers dead at the scene.

Because Opelika officers were involved, the ABI was called in to handle the investigation. Alabama Department of Public Safety spokeswoman Doris Teague confirmed Monday afternoon that the ABI was conducting a death investigation for the OPD. Teague was unable to provide any details regarding the ABI investigation.

Opelika police Capt. Allan Elkins declined to provide any details regarding the ABI investigation Monday.

“I have never given a statement where another department is doing the investigation on our behalf,” Elkins said.

Rivers was allegedly wanted for a failure to appear warrant in Birmingham, according to the coroner’s release. Rivers’ body was taken to the Alabama Department of Forensic Science in Montgomery for an autopsy.

Monday, preliminary autopsy results indicated that the gunshot wound was self-inflicted, the release states. The death investigation is ongoing by the Lee County Coroner's office, the Alabama Bureau of Investigation and the Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences. No other details were released. No Opelika officers were injured in the incident.