TIMES STAFF WRITERS

Police found a handgun in the car--but no weapon on the body--of a man officers shot to death in a busy Long Beach park, a police spokeswoman said Monday.

The gun was found several hours after Long Beach officers shot the man in front of at least 200 spectators at a soccer match. Police had been called to Chittick Field Park about 3:30 p.m. Sunday by reports of a man with a gun.

Police identified the man Monday as Jose Mendoza, 21, of Los Angeles.

Advertisement

The Los Angeles County coroner’s office said the man’s body had multiple gunshot wounds. He had been identified by a brother at the scene, but his name was not released until other relatives could be notified, a coroner’s spokesman said.

When officers arrived at the park, in a working-class neighborhood near Long Beach City College, Mendoza was pointed out by several witnesses as the man who had been seen with a gun, said Officer Jana Blair, a Long Beach Police Department spokeswoman.

The man did not respond to the officers’ verbal commands, given in both English and Spanish, Blair said. Several officers fired at the man. Blair did not say what the commands were or what Mendoza was doing that led the officers to open fire.

Mendoza died at the scene.

One man, 22, told The Times he had a bird’s-eye view from his apartment building on the rim of the park, which is sunken, bowl-like, below street level and ringed with apartment buildings and small businesses.

Speaking in Spanish, the man, who declined to give his name because he is not in this country legally and feared deportation, said he and two companions saw Mendoza get into an altercation with several others watching the soccer match. He said Mendoza appeared to be very drunk.

The man said Mendoza went to his car and pulled out a handgun, which he used to strike another man in the face. Some people tried to break up the fight, and someone put the gun back in the car. Several other people pulled out their cell phones, apparently to call police.

Advertisement

When officers arrived, guns drawn, they shouted to Mendoza, who was sitting on the ground, to put his hands on his head, the man said. Mendoza did so but then seemingly lost his balance and put an arm out, as if to catch himself. Officers opened fire, hitting Mendoza several times, the man said.

He said he was not interviewed by police. Two companions corroborated his account.

Police spokeswoman Blair said she could not comment on the man’s account.

Right after the shooting, officers cordoned off the park and interviewed spectators before allowing them to leave. Between 50 and 60 witnesses were bused to the police station and questioned into the night.

Mendoza’s body lay, uncovered, at the edge of the soccer field, near where his and several other vehicles were parked, until coroner’s staff arrived about midnight. He lay on his back, spread-eagled, a baseball cap on his head.

No weapon was found on the body, but a search of Mendoza’s car turned up a handgun early Monday, police said. Blair said she could not comment on reports that the man may have been intoxicated.

As with all fatal officer-involved shootings, the Los Angeles County district attorney is investigating the case. The Long Beach Police Department also is conducting a review.

The coroner’s office is expected to conduct an autopsy today.

*

Times staff writers Joe Mozingo and Dan Weikel contributed to this story.