Police on Tuesday shot and killed a suspect from a drug-related shooting that critically injured a man earlier this week.

Michael Julian Bucknor, 25, was pronounced dead about 2 a.m. at the Cobblestone Apartments, 7643 E. 51st St., Capt. Jonathan Brooks said. He was suspected of shooting Mahdi Ouni, 22, on Sunday and dumping Ouni in a parking lot at the Westminster Apartments, 4828 S. 74th East Ave.

Police had learned that Bucknor, whose street name was "Magic," was staying at the Cobblestone complex and started conducting surveillance there Monday night.

They were awaiting additional officers when Bucknor and another man left the apartment, police reports show. When two officers confronted Bucknor and told him he was under arrest, he pulled a gun from his waistband, police said.

Bucknor refused to drop the gun as instructed, so the two officers shot him, fearing for their safety and the public's, Brooks said. Police were unsure how many times Bucknor was hit or how many shots were fired.

Officers interviewed the adults who were in the apartment where Bucknor was staying. Several children also were in the apartment, police said.

The officers who shot Bucknor were placed on routine administrative leave, Brooks said. Their names had not been released later Tuesday.

After detectives finish a report on the shooting, the District Attorney's Office will decide whether the officers' actions were justified.

Ouni was shot about 3:50 p.m. Sunday in a gray Chevrolet Suburban and then dumped in a parking lot. He remained in critical condition Tuesday, police said.

The attack stemmed from a dispute over a drug deal, police reported.

Jeremy Lee Johnson, 20, was arrested Monday night on robbery and accessory complaints in connection with the shooting. When detectives served a search warrant at his apartment, they found the blood-spattered Suburban, reports show.

Johnson, whose street name is "Rome," is in the Tulsa Jail with bail set at $52,500.

Johnson told police that he was in the vehicle's driver's seat when Bucknor opened fire on Ouni with a .380-caliber pistol, police reported. A back-seat passenger known only as "Joe" shoved Ouni out of the SUV, the report states.

Johnson told police that Bucknor shot Ouni because he thought Ouni had shorted him in a marijuana deal, the report states.World staff writer Matt Barnard contributed to this story.

Kelly Hines 581-8408