Maureen Boyle

A 25-year-old Brockton man armed with a gun was shot and killed by police Wednesday night.

John E. Parks of Brockton was shot around 11:36 p.m. on Pleasant Street near Warren Avenue after pointing a gun at police officers, Assistant District Attorney Bridget Norton Middleton said this morning.

Parks was taken to Brockton Hospital where he was pronounced dead.

Middleton said a gun was recovered from the scene.

Based on a preliminary investigation, it appears the shooting came after police saw a suspected drug deal at Warren Avenue and Green Street.

Middleton said one suspect was caught by police but the second man, Parks, ran off.

When police found and tried to arrest Parks, he pulled out a gun and pointed it at officers, the preliminary investigation found, Middleton said.

The officers repeatedly told him to drop the weapon but the suspect refused.

It was unclear this morning if the suspect fired at police.

Parks, whose last address was Green Street, had been arrested in April and June on charges ranging from disturbing the peace to possession of marijuana with intent to distribute.

Plymouth County District Attorney Timothy J. Cruz said state police investigators assigned to his office are interviewing potential witnesses, including members of the Brockton police department, as part of the investigation.

State police will be in charge of the investigation, rather than Brockton police, because of the officer involvement in the case, he said.

“You always want to avoid even the appearance of a conflict,” Cruz said.

The names of the officer or officers involved in the shooting were not immediately available. It was not clear if any of the officers would be back at work today.

Generally, officers involved in a fatal shooting are placed on paid administrative leave at least in the initial phase of the investigation. They are also normally provided counseling.

Police Chief William Conlon referred all inquiries about the shooting to the district attorney’s office.

Maureen Boyle can be reached at mboyle@enterprisenews.com.