The attorney for the family of Daniel Flanary, the mentally ill man shot and killed by Kelso police in February, filed a civil rights claim against the city of Kelso Tuesday. The claim alleges that the officers were not properly trained and used excessive force.

By filing the $20 million claim, Flanary's parents, Marleen Reed of Kelso and Dennis Flanary of Longview, hope to show that their son's death "wasn't without some purpose," said Flanary family attorney Jim Harris of Seattle.

"Something good can come from Daniel's death if prejudicial attitudes can change towards people with mental illness and changes can be made in the way police deal with the mentally ill," Harris wrote. Flanary had been diagnosed previously with schizophrenia by a local doctor and released from St. John Medical Center days before his death.

Kelso City Manager Doug Robinson confirmed his office had received the claim but said the city has no comment. Harris said that if the city doesn't respond, he will file the complaint in federal court.

Flanary, 19, was shot Feb. 19 after fleeing police and breaking into an elderly woman's West Kelso apartment, refusing officer commands to drop weapons fashioned from two common tablespoons, and charging police. Police initially confronted Flanary on the street for allegedly yelling profanity and being disruptive.

A criminal investigation completed in March concluded that Flanary's death was a justifiable homicide. An internal Kelso police investigation also exonerated the six officers involved.

Kelso police captain Vern Thompson said the police department cannot discuss the claim.

"This incident has traumatized the lives of our officers and their families and the Flanary family," Thompson said. "The investigation into this matter has been completed and our officers have been cleared of any criminal act."

Harris said he questions the officers' accounts of what happened that night, and says they should've known Flanary was mentally ill based on contact that other Kelso officers had with him the night before.

"I'm not sure what they say happened in there happened," he said. "It's clear that (Flanary) was engaged in some sort of bizarre behavior on the street and in the apartment … He was unable to communicate with people. They knew or should've known" he was mentally ill.

Harris said he has consulted with a psychiatrist and police expert but has not had the opportunity to interview the officers. He said it is still not clear whether the officers were threatened and called the situation "officer-created jeopardy."

"You violate someone's civil rights if you don't accommodate their disability and force them into a situation that requires (lethal force)," he said. "It should've never gotten to that point."