MONTGOMERY COUNTY, ILL.

Alleged drunken driver involved in wrong-way crash

A fiery crash on Interstate 55 about 20 miles south of Springfield, Ill., was caused by an alleged drunken driver headed the wrong way on the highway, the Illinois State Police says.

The accident comes two days after police said another drunken, wrong-way driver caused an accident on Interstate 255 that killed three people and left a child and the drunken driver seriously injured.

The I-55 accident happened about 1:20 a.m. Saturday near Farmersville.

Police said Jermaine R. Jackson, 24, of Edwardsville was driving northbound in the southbound lanes when his car collided head-on with a semitrailer. The truck burst into flames. The truck driver, 41, was wearing his seat belt and was not injured, police said.

Jackson, whose injuries were not life-threatening, was taken to a hospital. He was charged with driving under the influence, driving on a suspended license, having an uninsured car and driving in the wrong lane, police said.

ST. LOUIS COUNTY

Murder charge filed against man in fatal crash on I-70

A man who fled from a traffic stop and crashed his car, killing his passenger, was indicted this week on charges of second-degree murder, first-degree involuntary manslaughter, resisting arrest and leaving the scene of an accident.

Police said Carlos Bright, 25, was driving the car that struck a pole on Interstate 70 near Jennings Station Road Nov. 9 after he sped off from police. Bright also tried to run after the wreck, police said.

The passenger in the car, Kamille Allen, 18, was not wearing her seat belt. She was pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

Bright faces the charges in St. Louis County Circuit Court and is being held at the county jail on $250,000 cash-only bail.

ST. LOUIS

Natural gas leak leads to evacuation of seven houses

Seven houses were evacuated Saturday afternoon after a leak caused natural gas to rise to dangerous levels.

No one was hurt, fire department spokesman Capt. Bob Keuss said.

Authorities were notified about the leak at 1:30 p.m. It closed down the 4100 block of Burgen Avenue, near the intersection of Bates Street and Morganford Road, for hours.

Laclede Gas crews found the source of the leak under the street and dug to relieve gas pressure and fix the problem, Keuss said. Authorities allowed residents to go home shortly before 5 p.m.

Firefighters detected high levels of gas in a house that was undergoing renovation and were worried about an explosion. Leaking natural gas seeps toward the easiest route and can cause an explosion if it builds up and a spark ignites it, Keuss said.

FERGUSON

Man is charged with murder in shooting on Chambers Road

Richard L. Bobbitt, 22, of St. Louis was indicted Wednesday on charges of first-degree murder and armed criminal action in connection with the fatal shooting Nov. 12 of Donnell Mack in the 1200 block of Chambers Road in Ferguson.

Bobbitt is accused of exiting a car and firing multiple shots at Mack, 24, who was on crutches at the time from injuries sustained in an earlier shooting, police said.

The driver of the car, Antonio Shaw, 21, of St. Louis, faces the same St. Louis County Circuit Court charges as Bobbitt.