A veteran San Antonio police officer Tuesday afternoon shot and killed an armed 42-year-old man who authorities believe was involved in a recent string of robberies across the city, police said.

The shooting - which marks the fifth time this year that a San Antonio officer has fatally shot a suspect - occurred around 2 p.m. in the 400 block of Amaya after Officer Marc Valero spotted Alfonso Escamilla, a suspect whom police were searching for in connection with an afternoon robbery of a Fred's Fish Fry in the 600 block of West Old U.S. 90.

Police Chief William McManus said Escamilla, spotted outside a house in the West Side neighborhood, got out of his car and started walking toward the officer with a gun in his hand. As Escamilla approached, the officer told him to put his weapon down, McManus said.

"The suspect said, 'Ain't going to happen,'" McManus said.

Valero, a 14-year member of the Police Department, fired multiple rounds, striking Escamilla at least twice: One bullet struck him in the abdomen and another grazed the side of his head, police said.

A neighbor who lives across the street from the shooting scene said he heard "three gunshots and looked out the window and just saw the dude falling."

Escamilla - who police believe is connected to four weekend robberies across the city, including two more at Fred's Fish Fry locations - was taken to Wilford Hall Medical Center in critical condition. He underwent surgery before being pronounced dead at 5:54 p.m., police spokesman Joe Rios said.

Escamilla had been scheduled to appear in court Thursday on two charges, one of which was unlawfully carrying a weapon.

Tuesday's incident, the first officer-involved shooting in more than two months, marks at least the 10th time this year that a San Antonio police officer has shot a suspect - two more than in all of last year.

In a six-day span in April, San Antonio officers shot three suspects, one fatally. In a 30-day span in July and August, officers shot three more, fatally wounding two. Police in September also shot and killed a burglary suspect.

In all of last year, police shot eight people, killing five.

In Tuesday's shooting, the officer was not injured. He was place on administrative duty pending an investigation, which is standard procedure after an officer-involved shooting.

McManus said Valero spotted the suspect's vehicle outside a house near Amaya and Wescott about 30 minutes after the robbery, which occurred at 1:30 p.m. Valero stopped to investigate when Escamilla, toting a handgun, got out of the car and approached the officer.

"Fearing for his life," Valero drew his service weapon and fired, according to police.

As officers responded to the robbery call, someone phoned police to report that Escamilla had just stopped at his in-laws' residence and relayed an ominous message.

"He said his goodbyes to his in-laws," McManus said, "and said something to the effect that he's not going to be taken easily."