Attorney Herb Subin (l.) demonstrates alleged circumstances surrounding the death of Gilberto Blanco, who was fatally shot by a cop after he attempted to hit officer with a metal folding chair. (Adams IV for News)

A lawyer for a deranged Brooklyn man shot dead by police says forensic evidence proves the cop who fired is lying.

Gilberto Blanco, 46, was killed in 2008 in the parking lot of a Coney Island church after police said he rushed at two officers while swinging a folding chair.

Advertisement

The officers, Dawn Ortiz, who fired the fatal shot, and her partner, India Archie, were lauded for their actions.

The shooting was deemed justified and the officers were each commended as Cop of the Year by the NYPD Holy Name Society at a ceremony attended by Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly.

Advertisement

The officers face disciplinary charges for not using proper tactics. Herb Subin, a lawyer who filed a lawsuit on behalf of the dead man's estate, said Ortiz explained in a deposition that Blanco was holding the chair with both hands above his head.

"Forensically not possible," Subin said yesterday.

Subin, based on autopsy reports, said a bullet grazed Blanco's left wrist before it entered the left side of his chest. That wouldn't be possible, he said, if Blanco had the chair above his head. The chair was at his side and he wasn't a threat, the lawyer argued.

Ortiz squeezed off one shot. Archie didn't fire.

"In my opinion, Ortiz's testimony, based on all the evidence, is false," Subin said. "He was not bringing a chair down on top of her head from 2 feet away."

Ortiz, according to the deposition, said she was aiming at Blanco's hands. She recalled writing in a police report that "he was attempting to kill me."

Michael Martinez, Ortiz's lawyer, said the officer's account was consistent with the evidence.

"I never saw, in any other reports done, anything that in any way says her testimony is inconsistent with any ballistics reports from a medical examiner or anyone else," Martinez said.

Advertisement

The two officers appeared in the NYPD's trial room yesterday to set an April date for their department trial. Neither was charged criminally and an initial department review determined the shooting was justified.

Martinez and Eric Sanders, the lawyer for Archie, said they couldn't recall a case in which officers faced departmental charges for a justified shooting.

The NYPD says the officers, who could lose up to 10 vacation days if convicted in the internal trial, should have used pepper spray and even hid behind a row of bushes.

"Police officers are not trained to run away," Sanders said.

rparascandola@nydailynews.com