A hostage standoff at an O'Fallon medical building in November ended with two people dead and three sons - ages 17, 21 and 22 - without their mother.

Gary Lee Sheets, 45, shot and killed ex-girlfriend Jenenne Meadows, 47, of St. Peters, at St. John's Urgent Care Center on Highway K where she worked as a lab technician. Police then shot and killed Sheets.

Police said Meadows was working at 4:30 p.m. Nov. 14 when Sheets entered the building brandishing a handgun, proceeded to the second floor, took Meadows hostage and ordered everyone else to leave.

Sheets locked himself in a room with Meadows. As SWAT team members waited outside the door, Sheets allowed Meadows call her children. She dialed her son Kyle, but got no answer, said her former husband, Ken Meadows, who was at home in St. Charles with his sons.

Sheets then called Jenenne's son Anthony and let him speak to his mother.

"She was very calm," Ken said. "Basically, she told him Gary is here. He has a gun and he says he's going to kill me. She said, 'I just want to say goodbye to you.' Then Gary took the phone and made derogatory statements to Anthony about him and his mom. He told Anthony he better hang up now, or else, 'You will probably hear your mom die.' That was unbelievable."

Jenenne later broke away from Sheets and unlocked the door, but Sheets fired at her, hitting her twice, police said. The SWAT team ran into the room and surrounded Jenenne. Sheets was still shooting when the officers returned fire.

Sheets and Jenenne Meadows later died at hospitals, police said.

About seven months earlier, Jenenne had thrown Sheets out of her house after living with him for about a year, Ken Meadows said.

"All she was trying to do was help him get on his feet, but he was laying around the house drinking and she got tired of it," Ken said. "He has history of drinking and abuse. He couldn't hold a job. He was pretty much a loser."

Ken said he had not known Sheets was convicted in 1998 of sexually assaulting a woman in Colorado and didn't think Jenenne knew, either.

It was her giving nature that made Jenenne try to help Sheets despite his problems, Ken said.

"She was a good person," he said. "It is unfortunate this guy repaid her the way he did. It is a shame."

- A nine-hour standoff July 20 in Dardenne Prairie ended when St. Charles County deputies stormed a house in the Aberdeen subdivision and found no one inside.

The sheriff's department received a call at 5 a.m. from a distressed woman who said her boyfriend was holding her hostage at gunpoint in their home on Dunheath Lane. A tactical team arrived at 6 a.m., then the lights went out and the woman who made the call ran out the back door to waiting officers. Officers suspected the man escaped during a few minutes when they had not secured the perimeter.

Captured

A 10-hour manhunt for an Illinois murder suspect produced unexpected drama in O'Fallon the morning of Oct. 9.

Zach Fitzgerald, 18, didn't know about the manhunt until SWAT team members kicked in the door of the mobile home where he lives with his father in Runny Meade Estates. Police were searching for Marcus Powell, 27, of East St. Louis, suspected in the shooting death of a 12-year-old boy in Madison County, Ill. They found Powell hiding in a shed beside the Fitzgeralds' home.

Fitzgerald said he didn't know Powell. A neighbor said Powell used to live in the neighborhood.

The manhunt began shortly after midnight when a Foristell police officer pulled Power over because of a problem with the car's lights. Powell evaded the officer, stole a vehicle and blew through a checkpoint, police said. He abandoned the vehicle near Bryan Road in O'Fallon.

About 4:30 a.m., law enforcement officials set up a command post in Fort Zumwalt Park. Checkpoints were set up on several roads.

"We've had a front-row view of this all night," Kristin Opp, who lives on Pund Road, said later as she and a friend stood outside watching a police helicopter hover in the sky.

"It's shocking," Opp said. "You never hear about this stuff around here."

Traffic on area roads came to a standstill as police searched vehicles for the suspect. The Fort Zumwalt School District closed four schools - two because they were in the search area, and two because buses for those schools ran through the search area.

After his capture, Powell was taken to the St. Charles County jail to await extradition to Madison County.

- An early morning chase through St. Charles Jan. 9 ended when an officer shot and killed William D. Steele, 28, of St. Louis.

Steele and Jack Field, 21, of O'Fallon, were suspected of robbing the Convenient Food Mart in the 2700 block of Droste Road in St. Charles. A clerk at the food mart pressed an alarm button and called police at 12:40 a.m. after the suspects left, police said.

Officers saw the suspects driving a few blocks from the store. The chase ended in the Frenchtown neighborhood when the car spun out of control and crashed into a house. Police took Field into custody. Steele fled on foot and was shot when he pointed a handgun at officers, police said.

- Dana Fincher, 33, was shot and killed July 26 while trying to escape from her boyfriend, Ricky Prentice, 51, with whom she shared a home in the 2200 block of North Benton Avenue in St. Charles, police said.

Police said Prentice shot Fincher while she was driving away, then pulled Fincher out of the car and onto the lawn and reparked the car in front of the house. Fincher was pronounced dead at the scene. Prentice was charged with first-degree murder and armed criminal action.

Transferred

Former St. Peters Mayor Shawn Brown was transferred in mid-April to a halfway house in St. Louis after spending about a year in a minimum-security federal prison camp in Duluth, Minn.

Brown was sentenced in January 2007 to 18 months in prison after pleading guilty in October 2006 to soliciting a bribe from the company hired to install red-light cameras at several St. Peters intersections.

"Shawn made a mistake and he's paid for his mistake," said Alderman Jerry Hollingsworth, Ward 3. "I hope he's learned his lesson. I don't wish any ill will on him."

On trial

Nathan Speaks, 28, was sentenced in June to two life terms without possibility of parole for the March 2000 execution-style shootings of his father, Roger "Dale" Speaks, 51, and his father's business partner, William Hamilton, 56, of Arkansas in Dale Speaks' home on Ehlmann Road in St. Charles County.

A jury found Speaks guilty in February of two counts of first-degree murder and two counts of armed criminal action. Assistant Prosecuting Attorney Philip Groenweghe told the jury Nathan Speaks had planned for years to steal a safe from his father that he knew contained several thousand dollars in cash.

- Matthew "Jerry" Wilson, 50, formerly of Arcadia, was found guilty by a jury in June and sentenced in July to two consecutive life terms for robbery and forcible sodomy and an additional 25 years for armed criminal action for the March 2007 attack on a real estate agent in Weldon Spring.

The woman testified Wilson posed as a wealthy man from Las Vegas who was interested in buying a house in the area. She said she was showing Wilson a home when he threatened her with a knife, tied her to a utility pole, robbed her and fondled her before leaving.

Wilson, who represented himself in the trial after dismissing his appointed public defender, claimed he and the real estate agent had agreed on a plan to make it look like the agent had been robbed and that he was to later murder her husband.

- Gregory S. Wadlow, 60, of Montgomery County was sentenced in August to 30 years in prison for killing his wife, Kelly Wadlow, by putting a Fentanyl pain patch on her in May 2004 when the couple lived in O'Fallon. Wadlow had a prescription for the medication, but his wife did not.

Wadlow pleaded guilty to second-degree murder two hours after his trial began June 3 in St. Charles County Circuit Court.

- A jury in October found Eric Winfrey, 39, guilty of murder and robbery in the June 2004 slaying of Christopher Hanneken, 27, who was shot in the head at Storage USA off Highway 94 South in St. Charles. Hanneken had been the manager of the storage facility for only about two weeks before his body was found in a back room.

Winfrey initially was one of several suspects considered by the Major Case Squad of Greater St. Louis because at one time he lived in an apartment above the storage facility. County Prosecutor Jack Banas said Winfrey also had worked there part time.

Winfrey could receive life in prison without possibility of parole.

- Allisa Lukasek, 20, of O'Fallon was sentenced to 18 years in prison after pleading guilty Oct. 29 to her role in the December 2006 slaying of Keeon Anderson in St. Charles.

Lukasek admitted to calling Anderson and arranging a meeting to buy marijuana from him with friend Dorsey Thompson, 20, of St. Charles. Police later responded to a call about a suspicious car in a field near Lindenwood University. They found Anderson's body behind the wheel and the car still running. Police said Anderson had been shot in the legs and bled to death.

Thompson was sentenced to 23 years in prison and Michael Adams, 21, of St. Louis to 20 years after both pleaded guilty in 2007 for their roles in the murder.