? Kansas Highway Patrol has cleared a trooper involved in a chase in Wichita last year where the fleeing driver hit another car, killing herself and two other people.

The patrol said it had completed its investigation of the Nov. 15 accident and that the agency didn’t need to change its vehicle-pursuit policy.

The letter also said that both of the drivers involved had blood alcohol levels above the legal limit, which “definitely was a contributing factor” in the accident.

The trooper was chasing 24-year-old Jennifer Stilley for speeding when Stilley’s Chevrolet Cobalt slammed into a Buick Century driven by 43-year-old Mia Alberson. Alberson and passenger Peggy King, 44, were killed.

Another of Alberson’s passengers, Teresa Phillips, 45, was critically injured.

The highway patrol, in response to a request from a local newspaper, allowed a reporter and a videographer to view a copy of the patrol car video of the incident and listen to a copy of the emergency radio traffic.

The video shows Alberson’s Buick pulling out in front of the Cobalt at an estimated speed of 15 mph. About six second before impact, the trooper told the emergency dispatcher that the chase speed had reached an estimated 90 mph.

Right after the collision, the video shows 29-year-old Joseph Batemon, a passenger in the Cobalt and Stilley’s fiancé, sticking his hands out of the car as Trooper Eric Molleker walks toward the car with his handgun raised.

While Batemon was wearing his seat belt, a Highway Patrol report says Stilley was not and was found lying across him.

In the letter, regional commander Maj. Alan Stoecklein writes: “The patrol’s mission includes protecting life and property through active enforcement of traffic laws. In this instance, our trooper was conducting appropriate enforcement action to attempt to stop a driver who had committed a serious traffic violation, specifically traveling 83 mph in a posted 60 mile per hour zone.”

Molleker began chasing Stilley when he spotted her speeding on Interstate 135 and she didn’t pull over and began to flee.

Stoecklein wrote in the letter that Stilley and Alberson were “driving under the influence and were legally impaired at the time of the crash, which definitely was a contributing factor in this unfortunate incident.”

Autopsy reports determined that Stilley’s blood-alcohol level measured 0.18, or more than twice the legal limit, while Alberson’s blood-alcohol level was 0.15 — almost twice the legal limit.