Victor Balta,Record Staff Writer

Suspect was

fleeing SUSD cops

Four people were killed Tuesday

after an 18-year-old Stockton man driving a reportedly stolen pickup sped past

a stop sign and broadsided a car near Franklin High School just minutes after

school was let out.

Jamil Howard of Stockton was driving

in excess of 50 mph in a red, late-model Dodge Ram 1500 truck southbound on

Olive Street, evading a Stockton Unified School District police officer, according

to California Highway Patrol Officer Derrek Brackett.

The truck, which was reported stolen

out of Livermore on Monday, ran through the stop sign at Olive and Main streets

around 2:15 p.m. and broadsided a blue, older-model Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme

carrying the four victims.

Three of the victims were Franklin

students -- sisters Ashley Martinez, 14, and Christina Martinez, 16, and Desiree

Guzman, 14 -- according to San Joaquin County Sheriff's Office spokesman Joe

Herrera. All three died instantly.

The fourth victim was the driver,

Bernice Martinez, 43, the mother of Ashley and Christina Martinez, who died

later at St. Joseph's Medical Center, Herrera said.

All four victims lived in Stockton.

Frank Evans of Merced was a passenger

in another car leaving a nearby park when he was almost hit by the pickup.

"It just shot by, and I looked up

and saw it happen," Evans said. "So we stopped and went back to see if everything

was OK, and I helped pull the three girls out of the car. They were just little

high schoolers."

Howard, who is enrolled at Franklin

High School and was a linebacker for the Yellow Jackets football team, was seen

peeling out of the school parking lot by SUSD police Officer Tim Kegarice, Brackett

said.

The officer watched as Howard went

up onto the sidewalk to pass other cars as students lined the street, according

to SUSD community relations officer Dianne Barth.

Dark clouds hung overhead and a

cool breeze blew by while law enforcement officials tried to sort out the details

of the tragic crash. A large crowd pushed up against the yellow crime-scene

tape while three yellow tarps lay over the young victims on the asphalt.

Howard, handcuffed in the back of

a police car, looked on for more than two hours before being taken away. Brackett

said Howard would be booked into San Joaquin County Jail on suspicion of murder

and vehicle theft.

There were three female passengers

in the truck with Howard, Brackett said. One was taken to a nearby hospital

with a broken leg while the other two stayed at the scene.

Kegarice followed Howard at a distance

southbound on Olive and watched as Howard went through stop signs at Washington

and Horner streets, Brackett said.

After passing Horner, Kegarice turned

on his patrol car's red light and attempted to stop Howard. Moments later, the

crash occurred.

Angel Fortner of Stockton was at

a friend's house at the corner of Main and Olive when she heard the screeching

brakes.

"I looked out the window and saw

the red truck hit that blue car," Fortner said.

After plowing through the intersection

and hitting the Oldsmobile, the truck veered to the right and attempted to cut

across the sidewalk when it was planted, front-end first, in a small ditch.

Kegarice caught up to the truck

a few moments later and took Howard into custody, said Fortner, who said she

recognized Howard from her days at Franklin about two years ago. The crash happened

so suddenly, Fortner said she wasn't sure what to make of it.

"I was freaking out," Fortner said.

"I'm still a little shook up by just the fact that I saw it happen and there's

people laying there dead."

Many onlookers were quick to criticize

the SUSD police, saying the officer may have overstepped his bounds.

Barth said school district police

officers have jurisdiction on any incident that begins at or near a school campus.

Still, Barth said the district will be keeping a close eye on the investigation.

"It appears the officer did his

job as he is assigned to do," Barth said. "This investigation is being considered

an accident, not an officer-involved accident. The officer could be called as

a witness (to the accident."

Kegarice has more than 10 years

of experience, five with SUSD and another five with the San Jose Unified School

District police.

Brackett of the CHP defended Kegarice's

efforts, noting that SUSD police officers have the same power, authority and

training certification as any police officer.

"He followed the correct procedure,"

Brackett said. "Unfortunately, the driver didn't want to stop, and we ended

up with this situation. The innocent victims all died in this crash."

In October the SUSD Police Department

came under fire after notifying U.S. Border Patrol officials that an Edison

High student was carrying a fake immigration card. The 16-year-old and his father

were subsequently deported. Superintendent George Ridler apologized at a school

board meeting for the incident and said the district's policies have been updated.

In 1998 a school board member suggested

the possibility of eliminating the department, because he felt it was neither

efficient or effective. The district conducted a top-to-bottom review of the

department that resulted in some changes.

In addition, crime at the district's

campuses has declined dramatically in the past few years.

Record staff writer Sarah Grunder

contributed to this report.

To reach reporter Victor Balta,

phone546-8272 or e-mailvbalta@recordnet.com

PHOTOS:

INVESTIGATION: A California Highway Patrol officer takes measurements and

marks evidence at the scene of the accident that killed three Franklin High

School students and the mother of two of the girls Tuesday afternoon. The victims'

car was struck by a reportedly stolen pickup whose driver failed to stop for

a stop sign as he was trying to elude Stockton Unified School District police.

SUSPECT: A Stockton CHP officer leads Jamil Howard to police car late

Tuesday afternoon after the deadly crash. SHOCKER: Young people react

Tuesday afternoon to the traumatic scene at Main and Olive Streets in east Stockton.

Three Franklin High School girls and one adult were killed when their car was

struck by a pickup whose driver was evading Stockton Unified School District

police. (Record photo

by AMELITA MANES

HOWARD:

Suspect.

C. MARTINEZ:

Victim.

GRAPHICS