Lisa M. Krieger

San

Jose Mercury News

SAN JOSE -- Deep down, we are all

very much alike.

New research confirms what scientists

have long suspected: The DNA of human beings is 99.9 percent identical. This

finding, reported in the most-recent issue of Science, is a powerful statement

about the relatedness of all humans.

''Traditional ways of distinguishing

populations are irrelevant in terms of genetic code,'' said Craig Venter, head

of Celera Genomics Corp., the private company that joined with a public consortium

of scientists to map the human genome. ''You cannot look at a person's genes

and say with any accuracy whether they are from one racial group or another.''

In fact, the variation between any

two individuals in the same racial group could be greater than that between

two different groups, Venter said at a recent Washington, D.C., news briefing

where he unveiled the data behind his company's map of the human genome.

Many Africans or people of recent

African descent are more-closely related to Caucasians than they are to other

Africans, according to Venter. Likewise, distinctions between Chinese people

and Caucasians are virtually insignificant when compared with those between

groups from, say, parts of east and west Africa, he said.

''Mapping the DNA sequence variation

in the human genome holds the potential for promoting the fundamental unity

of all humankind,'' according to Dr. Harold P. Freeman, a member of Celera's

Institutional Review Board.

''The power of science can be used

to eliminate public perceptions of racial superiority and inferiority, which

are the basis of racism itself,'' said Freeman, president and director of surgery

at North General Hospital in New York City and a leading authority on the inter-relationships

between race, poverty and cancer.

''In this way,'' he said, ''the

mapping of the human genome could be pivotal in promoting the concept of one

race, the human race.''

The mapping of the human genome

was launched in 1989 by an international consortium of federally funded researchers

and accelerated when Celera Genomics joined the effort in 1998. The most recent

findings on the genome were published in last week's issues of the journals

Nature and Science.

On average, two unrelated people

differ at just one of every 1,000 sites in their DNA -- and no genes, by themselves

or together, are able to predict a person's race, according to Venter.

''No serious scholar in this field

While the gene mapping showed no genetic identifiers for races, it did show

a spectrum of subtle genetic differences within races.

''Throughout recorded history and

up to the present time, countless human conflicts have occurred based on how

groups of people have seen, classified and behaved toward another group,'' Celera's

Freeman said.

''The biological concept of race

... has no basis in science.''