An Eight Mile man, wanted for a probation violation, died

in a gunbattle with two probation officers in midtown

Mobile, also leaving one of the officers wounded.

Mobile police identified the probationer as Christopher

Foehl, 32, who was shot dead in the backyard of a home

across the street from the Bay Haas Building, which houses

the state probation office.

Robert Oakes, the assistant executive director of the

Alabama Board of Pardons and Paroles, said probation

officers Dan Thompson and Paul Morton were trying to arrest

Foehl, who was under supervision for a burglary conviction. Thompson was shot during the altercation and taken to the

University of South Alabama Medical Center. Morton, who was

not shot, was also taken to the hospital with an unspecified

injury.

A nursing supervisor at the hospital Monday night said he

couldn't give the officers' conditions or even

confirm that they were brought to the hospital.

Oakes said he did not recall a single other shooting of a

parole or probation officer during his 15 years with the

agency.

Oakes said he did not know the reason officers were

planning to arrest Foehl, but the probationer's

mother, Bonnie Foehl, said she understands that her son had

failed a drug test.

She said her son, who had about seven weeks to go before

completing his probation, found out about the failed drug

test Monday, after he showed up for his weekly check-in with

his probation officer.

Bonnie Foehl said probation officials later told her that

officers were handcuffing her son when he squirmed away,

grabbed a gun from one of the officers and ran away. But,

she said, she has trouble accepting that.

"I don't believe it," she said. "Yeah,

he's done a lot of stupid stuff. But to fight a police

officer over a gun? I can't believe that."

Mobile police spokesman Cpl. Charles Bagsby said the

confrontation began about 9 a.m.

Foehl and his pursuers ended up in the backyard of Kathy

Parker, who lives in a historic house on Montauk Avenue,

across the rear parking lot of the Bay Haas Building. She

said her next-door neighbor came to her door after he saw

men walking behind her home.

Parker, who has lived in the house for 30 years, said she

and her neighbor were talking on the porch when they heard a

gunshot and dove to the floor inside.

"We started hearing shots," said Parker, still

visibly shaken more than an hour after the incident.

"We were laying down to avoid getting hit by gunfire

going off like that."

Parker said she heard five or six shots and called 911.

She said the shooting was the latest and most serious in a

string of incidents that she contended have made residents

uneasy about sharing a street with the Haas building.

"Our neighbors have tried our best to get Bay Haas out

of our residential neighborhood," she said. "Maybe

now they will listen."

The burglary charge for which Foehl was on probation

occurred in 2003, according to court records. He stole

$4,450 worth of Dale Earnhardt memorabilia from a home on

Red Creek Drive in Semmes and later sold the items to a

sports dealer, records showed.

In addition to that charge, Foehl's criminal record

included convictions for harassment, assault and receiving

stolen property.

The assault occurred several months after the burglary and

involved an altercation with the man who owned the Earnhardt

keepsakes. Court records indicated that Foehl cut the man

from behind with a carpet knife outside an auto parts store

on Moffett Road.

Foehl was also about to go on trial next month on charges

of first-degree rape and sodomy. On Aug. 29, 2006, he

allegedly held a revolver to the head of a 32-year-old

woman and dragged her into the woods and forced her to

perform oral sex before raping her.

Bonnie Foehl said she had expected those charges to be

dropped. At any rate, she said, she does not believe the

case had anything to do with Monday's events.

James Kimbrough, a Mobile lawyer who was representing Foehl

on the rape and sodomy charges, expressed sympathy for Foehl

and the probation officers.

"I think it's very sad whenever anyone

dies," he said. "It's a tragedy for Chris

Foehl's family."

Bonnie Foehl said her son, a Mary G. Montgomery High School

dropout, had been working recently for his brother

installing flooring.

"Chris wasn't a bad person," she said.

"He was a good person. He had a good heart. He loved

kids."

(Staff Reporter Gary McElroy contributed to this report).