Staff Writer

The Record

WASHINGTON (AP -- Police who are

convinced that a drug suspect will destroy evidence if left alone may hold him

outside his home while they get a warrant, the Supreme Court ruled Tuesday.

In a second case exploring the balance

between law enforcement and privacy rights, the court also heard the arguments

of a man arrested after police outside his house used a heat-measuring device

to detect a marijuana-growing operation inside.

In the first case, Charles McArthur

and a Sullivan, Ill., officer had a polite standoff outside his trailer four

years ago, after police confronted him with allegations from his estranged wife

that he had marijuana hidden under his couch.

For about two hours, McArthur refused

to let the officer inside without a warrant, and the officer refused to let

McArthur go inside alone.

The justices voted 8-1 that the

officer acted appropriately.

Police ''had probable cause to believe

that a home contained contraband, which was evidence of a crime,'' and every

reason to think that McArthur would destroy the stash if he got the chance,

Justice Stephen J. Breyer wrote for the majority.

Indeed, McArthur has admitted that

is exactly what he would have done.

Police ''imposed a restraint that

was both limited and tailored reasonably to secure law enforcement needs while

protecting privacy interests,'' Breyer wrote.

As in several other drug-search

cases the court has heard or decided recently, the issue pits law enforcement

needs against the right to privacy. The court explored the same equation in

arguments involving the heat detector.

Danny Lee Kyllo claims police violated

the Fourth Amendment's protections against unreasonable searches when they used

the heat detector to scan his house from a distance.

Police did not have a search warrant,

and the government argues none was needed. The heat sensor was not ''like an

X-ray machine'' that would allow authorities to see inside a house, Deputy Solicitor

General Michael Dreeben argued to the justices.

Kyllo's attorney, Kenneth Lerner,

argued the heat scan was invasive enough to violate his client's privacy.

A decision in the case is expected

before June.

In the Illinois standoff case decided

Tuesday, the high court overturned a state appeals court's ruling that the seizure

violated McArthur's Fourth Amendment rights.

Justice John Paul Stevens was the

lone dissent. He said the tiny amount of drugs found in McArthur's home makes

the case a poor instrument for such an important constitutional test.

Lower courts, Stevens wrote, ''placed

a higher value on the sanctity of the ordinary citizen's home than on the prosecution

of this petty offense.''

Stevens argued the court should

not have tried to decide the case at all, but if pressed he would have upheld

the Illinois courts.

''They correctly viewed that interest

-- whether the home be a humble cottage, a secondhand trailer or a stately mansion

-- as one meriting the most serious constitutional protection,'' Stevens wrote.

The case now returns to Illinois

courts.

The case is Illinois v. McArthur,

99-1132.

------

On the Net:

Supreme Court: http://www.supremecourtus.gov