A 26-year-old San Jose man died early Friday after he was zapped with a Taser by a Campbell police officer who was helping quell a disturbance at Valley Medical Center.

The Santa Clara County medical examiner’s office identified him as Edwin Rodriguez. The cause of death is pending.

Campbell police Capt. David Dehaan said the department is cooperating with the district attorney in investigating the death. “The Campbell Police Department offers their sympathy to the family,” he said.

The case started about 9:38 p.m. Thursday, when relatives of Rodriguez, saying he was acting strangely, called San Jose police to a home at the 3800 block of Dottielyn Avenue. Officers determined that he was not dangerous, so they left. Police got a second call at 10:10 p.m. and again responded, this time briefly putting the man in handcuffs before an officer again concluded he wasn’t a danger to himself or to others.

Then, at 11:20 p.m., a woman called 911 from Valley Medical Center on Bascom Avenue, saying one of her relatives was involved in a “disturbance.” Sheriff’s deputies arrived to find Rodriguez fighting with a male relative.

Moments later, deputies began to struggle with the 26-year-old and called for backup.

A Campbell patrol officer who was at the hospital doing a follow-up investigation on another case saw Rodriguez fighting with deputies outside near Enborg Lane.

Dehaan identified the Campbell officer as agent Gary Berg, 31. Berg hopped out of his car and went to assist.

The fight escalated to what police describe as a “strenuous, intense physical altercation” with Rodriguez, who was 6 feet tall and weighed about 260 pounds.

In an effort to subdue the man, Berg discharged his Taser electric stun gun, directly on Rodriguez’s lower back. Dehaan said Berg discharged his Taser “several” times, but he did not know the exact number.

After being subdued, Rodriguez was put in handcuffs, but deputies soon realized he was unresponsive. They started CPR on the man, who was taken into the hospital’s emergency room. He died at 12:11 a.m. Friday.

Neither the sheriff’s department nor Campbell police have said what sparked the initial disturbance with Rodriguez and his family.

Berg is on routine paid administrative leave.

“Gary’s dealing with it well,” Dehaan said. “No one goes out on a patrol shift anticipating circumstances where someone will die.”

He called Berg an “exemplary officer” with an “excellent service record.” Berg grew up in Santa Clara County and was hired in 2000.

Dehaan said Campbell police have used Tasers 60 times since buying the stun guns in 2004. But in 29 of those cases, Dehaan said, simply unholstering the Taser and issuing a warning prompted the suspects to comply.

The Campbell police have never had a Taser-related death.

Campbell Vice Mayor Evan Low called the situation an “unfortunate tragedy for everyone involved,’ and urged people “not to jump to any conclusions.”

Tasers, manufactured in Scottsdale, Ariz., are controversial weapons that deliver 50,000 volts of electricity, causing people to temporarily collapse from loss of muscle control. Many police departments, including those in San Jose, Fremont and Palo Alto, use them, though the sheriff’s department does not.

At least five people have died in San Jose since 2004 after being stunned with a Taser.

Taser supporters say they are yet another non-lethal tool officers can use to disable combative suspects. Critics, such as the American Civil Liberties Union, contend the stun guns are largely unregulated and that for the most part, police departments don’t have strict controls on how the weapons are used.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5002.