The NYPD investigating whether its officers bear any blame for the Brooklyn hit-and-run that killed a Gulf War veteran and mother of two, authorities said Tuesday.

Stacey Blount, 45, of Brownsville, was mowed down Monday night by a stolen 2003 Ford van as its driver led police on a back-streets chase through her neighborhood, top brass confirmed.

Advertisement

"Three to four police cars were in pursuit of the van," Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said Tuesday.

Community groups are offering a $6,000 reward for information leading to the driver, who escaped on foot after the van struck Blount, authorities said.

Advertisement

The NYPD's Internal Affairs Bureau is questioning the officers involved in the chase, Kelly said.

Security video taken from businesses near the crash showed the first police car following the stolen van arrived 18 seconds after Blount was hit, police sources said. That would appear to discount the idea that cops chasing the van helped cause it to hit Blount.

At issue is whether another police car, heading toward the stolen van, forced it to swerve and hit Blount, sources said.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

State Sen. Eric Adams (D-Brooklyn), a former NYPD captain, said police must show restraint when following suspects on city streets.

"This is a textbook case why you do not speed through the streets of Brooklyn to apprehend a fleeing felon," Adams said. "Our city streets are not Hollywood."

Blount served her country for a decade before going to work for a Manhattan fine arts company that serves high-end auction houses like Sotheby's, her family said. She served food to the elderly at a Brooklyn senior center and organized finances for her daughter's school board council, relatives said.

Moments before her death, the single mom stopped by the DDM Beauty Salon on Mother Gaston Blvd. to pick up a friend's son for his birthday party. The teen wasn't ready, so Blount and her 13-year-old daughter went back outside to wait in the car with her 21-year-old son and baby grandson, relatives said.

She was struck down in full view of the entire family, witnesses said.

Advertisement

"Her daughter came in, screaming, 'Help!'" said salon owner Dilcia David. "We ran outside, she was already dead."

agendar@nydailynews.com