SHARE Dionisio Anibal Saucedo Jr.

By Jennifer Rios

Manuel Alcantar Jr., a man being sought in the death of a San Angelo woman, died after exchanging gunfire with a Texas Department of Public Safety trooper in Concho County, according to a DPS news release.

San Angelo police helped troopers identify the suspect's possible location, and shortly after 7 p.m. Wednesday, a suspicious vehicle with two people in it was stopped by a trooper, the release says.

The vehicle was headed east on U.S. 87 from San Angelo and was stopped just inside the western Eden city limits, said Trooper Shawn Baxter, a DPS spokesman, in an e-mail.

While the trooper tried to identify the driver and passenger, Alcantar shot him once from the passenger seat of a 2005 Dodge Stratus sedan, troopers said.

Alcantar used a 12 gauge shotgun, Baxter said.

The trooper returned fire, hitting Alcantar, the DPS release says.

The driver, Alcantar's cousin, was unharmed, according to the DPS.

Alcantar, 20, was taken to Concho County Hospital in Eden, where he later died from gunshot wounds. According to the DPS, he was pronounced dead at 7:49 p.m. by Concho County Precinct 1 Justice of the Peace Scott Spoonts.

Alcantar's body was taken to the Lubbock County Examiners Office for an autopsy.

The trooper was treated at that hospital and released.

Texas Rangers are still investigating the case.

They declined to release the injured trooper's name at this time.

Driver Dionisio Anibal Saucedo Jr., 21, was arrested and booked into jail on a charge of attempted capital murder of a peace officer.

He is being held in lieu of $1 million bond. The charge Saucedo faces is a first-degree felony that carries a possible penalty of five to 99 years or life in prison and up to a $10,000 fine.

Baxter said the rationale for Saucedo's charge has to do with the chapter in the State Penal Code that deals with criminal responsibility for the conduct of another.

That chapter says, in part, that a person can be charged with the same offense as a crime suspect if he fails to make a reasonable attempt to stop the suspect.

Alcantar had been suspected in the fatal shooting Wednesday afternoon of Lynda Fairchild, 38, of San Angelo. A family acquaintance said Alcantar had a child with Fairchild's daughter, who police said was injured by gunshot in the incident, in north San Angelo.