Anaheim police shot and killed a man after a traffic stop in a convenience store parking lot early Thursday, authorities said.

The incident began when a police sergeant pulled over a light blue sedan at 12:13 a.m., said police spokesman Sgt. Rick Martinez.

After Barry Martin Koeningsberg, 43, of Anaheim parked outside a 7-Eleven at the intersection of Brookhurst Street and Orange Avenue, the sergeant called for backup. A patrol officer arrived, and at 12:25 a.m. police dispatchers received reports of an officer-involved shooting.

Advertisement

It is unclear what happened in the 12 minutes between when the man was pulled over and when officers reported the shooting, including how many shots were fired, Martinez said.

Both officers fired their weapons at the man “numerous times,” Martinez said, and “there are strong indications . . . that he did fire his weapon at officers.”

Investigators recovered a handgun in the man’s car, but police did not say why the man was pulled over or who fired first. Officers were not injured.

Paramedics found Koeningsberg collapsed with multiple gunshot wounds about 30 feet from the car in the middle of Brookhurst, a major thoroughfare.

He was taken to UC Irvine Medical Center in Orange, where he was pronounced dead.

Investigators found a police-style belt underneath Koeningsberg’s jeans and jacket.

Advertisement

By midmorning, onlookers had gathered near the convenience store as tow trucks removed the sedan, which bore bullet holes and several shot-out windows, and a police car with its rear window shot out

The 7-Eleven was open at the time of the shooting, and investigators plan to interview several potential witnesses. Police also will review surveillance tape from the convenience store.

The Orange County district attorney’s office is investigating the shooting with the Anaheim Police Department. The names of the officers involved in the shooting were not released.

It was the department’s second fatal officer-involved shooting in three months.

In October, Julian Alexander, 20, was shot and killed in his frontyard by an officer in pursuit of burglary suspects. Alexander was unarmed. Hours later, Police Chief John Welter apologized for the shooting. Alexander’s parents sued the city last week for alleged wrongful death and civil rights violations.

--

tony.barboza@latimes.com

nathan.olivarezgiles @latimes.com