Related Story Who was Vincent Lumia?

A special prosecutor said Tuesday that a state trooper was justified in his use of deadly force when he shot a man to death in Floyd County this year.

When Virginia State Police Master Trooper Andrew O'Connor shot Vincent James Lumia III on Jan. 12, Lumia was using his Ford Explorer to push a car toward the officer, according to Salem Commonwealth's Attorney Tom Bowers.

Bowers detailed the events that led up to the shooting in a news release Tuesday. It was the first time O'Connor's name had been made public.

Bowers was appointed a special prosecutor after Floyd County Commonwealth's Attorney Stephanie Murray Shortt recused herself.

As the incident unfolded in the driveway of Lumia's parents' home on Eanes Road in Check, O'Connor thought Lumia had already struck another officer with his vehicle and "possessed a reasonable belief that he himself was in danger of being killed or seriously injured," Bowers said.

"It's a tragic situation," Bowers said. But, he said, Lumia "put all the parties in this situation."

A spokesman for the state police declined to comment Tuesday and said O'Connor, who remains on administrative duty, would have no comment. Lumia's family could not be reached.

After the shooting, police searched Lumia's Patrick County home. They found a marijuana-growing operation that included 996 marijuana plants, from large plants to seedlings in small cups, Bowers said. In addition, he said, a toxicology report showed that Lumia, 33, was heavily under the influence of marijuana.

The incident started just before 9 p.m. Jan. 12 when John Beasley, Lumia's stepfather, called 911 to report that Lumia was trying to drive his Ford Explorer through the front door of John and Valerie Beasley's home, Bowers said. Tuesday was the first time details about the initial 911 call that drew police to the home were revealed. Lumia also used the Explorer that night to push in the door frame and break the sliding glass door of a small cottage house on the property, Bowers said.

O'Connor and three Floyd County deputies, Chad Harris, William Justin Coleman and Tommy Turman, went to the home, Bowers said.

When they arrived, Beasley came outside and told them Lumia was on the upper driveway toward the back of the house, Bowers said. He also told them Lumia had bipolar disorder and had not taken his medication, Bowers said.

According to Bowers, the officers drove to the upper driveway, saw Lumia in the Explorer, and got out of their vehicles. Harris told Lumia, "Let me see your hands." Lumia raised both hands. Harris twice said, "Unlock the door," but Lumia refused. Harris struck the window but it didn't break.

Lumia revved the engine and sped forward, striking one of the deputy's cars head-on, Bowers said. With the Explorer, Lumia pushed the cruiser backward toward O'Connor, who was walking toward the front of the second cruiser.

"Lumia made no effort to stop his vehicle as both vehicles headed toward Trooper O'Connor," Bowers said.

O'Connor heard Coleman yell and thought Lumia had struck or run over him, Bowers said.

O'Connor fired five shots toward the Explorer, Bowers said. Lumia was struck twice in the head and in the forearm and wrist, Bowers said.

Bowers said O'Connor told him, "He came straight at me. I was in fear of my life and the deputies' lives too. I thought he was going to kill me. I thought he could have already killed Justin."

Only five minutes passed between the time the officers arrived at the home and the time they called 911 to request a rescue crew for Lumia, Bowers said. Lumia was pronounced dead at the scene.

The officers were not hurt.

State police said O'Connor will remain on administrative duty pending investigations by the state police Bureau of Criminal Investigations and internal affairs department.