By Jim Wallace - bio | email



January 22, 2009

ALBANY, GA (WALB) -The family of a man shot and killed by an Albany Drug Agent wants answers.

39 year old Clayton Lewis was killed in a shootout with an ADDU agent Tuesday in a moving car on the Albany Bypass.

The agent was also shot, and another agent hit by a car when Lewis sped away from a traffic stop. Investigators are not releasing any information on the autopsy results on Clayton Lewis of Sylvester, or the search of his vehicle.

Lewis' family has many questions about his death, and are anxiously awaiting answers from law enforcement.

Clayton Lewis' family in Sylvester said they learned about his death when friends called them after seeing WALB's live news reports. His mother Shirley says the large family is gathered in grief.

Shirley Lewis said "Everyone who knows Clayton they know that what they displayed isn't the Clayton we knew. So I don't know what happened."

Shirley says most of what she knows about her son's death has come from the media, but wonders if his death could have been prevented.

Lewis said "It should have been handled where no one got hurt. Because they are supposed to be trained in that manner. Where they can handle situations that occur in this manner."

Late this afternoon GBI agents were still walking the Liberty Expressway, looking for clues in this fatal shooting. Officials say Lewis drove off from a traffic stop with Drug Agent Mark Farley in the back seat, fighting over the keys. About a mile away Officials say Lewis pulled a gun, and multiple shots were fired. Lewis was killed, Farley shot in the shoulder. Another drug agent, Vy Chu, was hit by the car. Both are recovering.

Lewis said "and I feel for the Officer that got shot and the Officer who got injured. But truly I'm thinking it should have been a different way they can have done that."

Clayton Lewis was the father of 8 sons, a truck driver who told his Mother he was investing in a business in Albany.

Lewis said "I just would like to know why did it have to extend to death. No one likes to bury their own child."

Clayton Lewis was under indictment in Dougherty County, and awaiting trial on two counts of felony theft by taking. Late Thursday afternoon ADDU board officials say they are still waiting on GBI Investigators to give them any more information.

Feedback