Knife-wielding man shot by city officer identified

Police have identified the man who was shot and killed by officers Sunday after he stabbed a pregnant woman. Brendan J. Singleton, 19, was shot by police after being hit with a Taser and refusing to drop a knife, said spokesman Anthony Guglielmi. Police said the incident occurred in the 200 block of N. Luzerne Ave. after Singleton broke into a home about 3 a.m. and attacked a 26-year-old woman described as his estranged girlfriend. Singleton was taken to Johns Hopkins Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. The woman and unborn child were hospitalized with injuries that were not life-threatening. Court records show Singleton had been brought to court twice on domestic violence charges in recent years. He was ordered to stay away from a woman and enroll in a domestic violence program in July 2007. Similar charges were dropped in June 2008 after the same woman failed to appear in court.

Advertisement

Justin Fenton

Residents protest arena expansion at Towson

Advertisement

As Towson University President Robert L. Caret began a discussion on the advantages of living near a college community, dozens of residents entered the hall with large signs calling for a halt to a $45 million new arena on the campus. The residents demonstrated at the town hall meeting to which the Greater Towson Committee invited the presidents of Goucher College and Towson University, asking them to discuss resources the schools provide to the community. The presidents and other university officials gave the audience a preview of campus plans, including the $45 million arena set for construction next year. The 5,000-seat arena is planned as an addition to the Towson Center building near Osler Drive and has been criticized as intrusive and unnecessary. Opponents have organized into Halt TU Arena Now and are circulating a petition against the project. Caret promised that he would meet with community leaders as soon as possible and said he is willing to consider a different orientation for the addition. "People can trust what I say," Caret said. "I put out facts. And I think we had good dialogue. I'm pleased we're back at the conversation level." Many in the audience said that mistrust is still a major issue. "He cares about the growth of Towson University but not the growth of the community as a whole," said Jean Ottey, who lives in neighboring Rodgers Forge.

Mary Gail Hare

Reisterstown man, 52, killed in auto accident

A Reisterstown man was killed early yesterday after the car he was driving went off a road, county police said. The 2002 Honda Accord was westbound on Butler Road near Dover Road when it crossed the center line and hit a guardrail, police said. The car then crossed both lanes of the road, hit a ditch and became airborne, hit the embankment, flipped, and eventually came to rest on a fence post, according to police, who received a report of the crash about 1:30 a.m. The driver, Hugh Patrick Coyle III, 52, of the 4800 block of Pleasant Grove Road, was pronounced dead at the scene.