An officer at the scene where Marilyn Feng, 25, was struck and killed by a car Saturday morning near Battery Park. Alcohol may have contributed to the accident. (Nicastro, Vic,, freelance, NYDN)

A drunken New Jersey cop plowed into a young couple walking home after a night of dancing in Manhattan - killing a recent law school graduate and injuring her boyfriend, police said Saturday.

Marilyn Feng, 26, who recently finished New York University Law School, and boyfriend Dennis Loffredo, 26, a hedge fund analyst, took tango lessons nearly every weekend, friends said.

Advertisement

After dancing the night away, they were walking back to her apartment near Battery Park City around 3:40 a.m. when the driver of a 2007 Toyota Camry slammed into them.

Feng, who came to the United States from China to study and was about to start a new job, was pronounced dead at the scene.

Advertisement

Loffredo was in critical but stable condition with a broken leg at St. Vincent's Hospital, where family members didn't have the heart to tell him Feng was dead.

"You wouldn't see one without the other," Loffredo's mother, Diane, said of the couple. "I think they were going to get married."

Cops charged the driver, Martin Abreu, 25, of Jersey City, with vehicular manslaughter and assault and driving while intoxicated. He has been a Jersey City cop since 2005 and has been suspended, officials said.

"He's a good cop, and a really good guy," said Robert Reyes, 28, a Jersey City resident. "This is all just a big shock."

Loffredo's mother said the death was senseless and noted that she donates money to Mothers Against Drunk Driving.

"I think next year I'm going to donate even more," she said.

Feng, whose parents live in China, had been studying for the bar exam in July. A former intern with the Manhattan borough president's office, she was eager to launch her career.

"Marilyn was not only a brilliant student, but also a great dancer," said friend Roger An, who added that Feng wanted to practice intellectual property rights. "She loved to tango with Dennis every weekend."

Advertisement

Her roommates said she emigrated from Shanghai four years ago.

"This is terrible," one roommate said. "She was so young."

Loffredo, meanwhile, was knocked unconscious in the crash but was expected to recover.

"We haven't told Dennis yet," his father, Joe Loffredo, said.

"We are all very distraught."

wcruz@nydailynews.com