ST. LOUIS — The owner of a popular corner business in south St. Louis killed his right-hand man, then shot himself in the chest at the end of last month's five-hour standoff, police said Wednesday.

Michael R. Harper, 44, the owner of the Anything for Money shop at 3655 California Avenue, never was held hostage by his friend during the Feb. 9 incident as he had claimed in phone calls, police said.

Investigators believe Harper made up the story about being held against his will because he was trying to cover-up the fact that he shot Bradley C. Clubb, 37, earlier that morning.

St. Louis police and federal investigators believe Harper was upset that Clubb had been speaking with authorities about an ongoing federal drug investigation involving the popular shop owner.

Police are trying to determine whether Harper had already shot Clubb when Harper called his lawyer about 10 a.m., saying he was being held at gunpoint. The lawyer, Richard Fredman, called police, leading to the standoff that captivated the neighborhood for much of the day.

Clubb was shot under the chin, police said. Harper later shot himself in the chest.

Before he killed himself, police said, Harper set his business ablaze as police stormed into the one-story building about five hours after the ordeal began.

Federal investigators believe Harper was running a large-scale drug operation. Clubb reportedly had cooperated with authorities as part of the investigation into Harper's operations, leading to the violent confrontation.

Friends of both men said the two had been business associates and occasional out-of-work pals. The two had attended a barbecue the day before the standoff, and friends said there were no outward signs of problems between the two.

The Anything for Money Shop, also known as Any House for Money, specialized in odd jobs — anything from rehabbing old houses to yard work.

Harper, who had owned the business for about 15 years, lived across the street from the shop. Friends memorialized the two men with signs, balloons and stuffed animals in the days following the standoff.

Fredman said in the days after the deadly standoff that there was the possibility of some future action by the government, without elaborating.

Harper also called a TV station and several friends that morning, telling everyone he was being held at gunpoint. Police never talked with Clubb after they arrived.

The standoff ended when police used a water jet from a robot to break through a door. Tactical officers rushed in but were forced back by smoke and flames. Firefighters brought the blaze under control, and officials soon found the two bodies.

Police said they had fired no shots and used no devices that could have started a fire.

To see more of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.stltoday.com.

Copyright © 2009, St. Louis Post-Dispatch

Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services.

For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.