ST. LOUIS

Police identify man shot by officers

The man St. Louis police shot and killed Friday afternoon after he pointed a gun at them has been identified as Harold Bobbitt, 23, of the 4500 block of Margaretta Avenue.

A police spokesman said three undercover officers spotted Bobbitt, wanted on assault and unlawful use of weapon charges, in a green Ford Crown Victoria, near Labadie and Lambdin avenues.

Police officers threw down spike strips in an attempt to stop the vehicle. Bobbitt drove over the strips and continued on four flat tires. Bobbitt exited the car at Marcus and St. Louis avenues and began running through a gangway in the 4700 block of St. Louis Avenue. He turned and pointed a gun at officers. The officers fired their weapons, striking Bobbitt several times. He died at the scene.

Police recovered a weapon they said belonged to Bobbitt. The officers were placed on administrative leave while the shooting is investigated.

ST. CHARLES

Body of man found in creek offers few clues

A body found floating in Cole Creek on Friday afternoon was a man, and foul play is not suspected in his death.

Beyond that, authorities have few details from an autopsy conducted Saturday, said St. Charles Police Sgt. Todd Wilson.

Authorities still don't know his race, age, or how long he was in the water.

Police hope toxicology and forensic tests will help identify the man and whether drugs or alcohol may have been in his body and contributed to his death, Wilson said.

Two children discovered the body in the creek near Droste Road and Cole Boulevard in the vicinity of McNair Park.

PONTOON BEACH

Explosion damaged at least nine other homes

The force of a house explosion Friday morning damaged at least nine other homes in the Emerald Meadows subdivision, and repair costs are estimated at between $1.5 million and $2 million.

That was the assessment Saturday afternoon after investigators from the state fire marshal's office and insurance companies representing owners of the damaged homes pored over the Pontoon Beach subdivision near Horseshoe Lake.

The cause of the explosion remains undetermined, said Danny Kreher, chief of the Long Lake Volunteer Fire Department and resident of the subdivision. Authorities said Friday that it could have been a natural gas leak.

No one was home at the time of the explosion. A neighbor got a bump on her head when drywall from her home fell on her. She was treated at the scene.

CHESTERFIELD

Pregnant woman injured in crash on Highway 40

A pregnant woman was seriously injured this morning in a two-vehicle collision on Highway 40, west of Chesterfield Parkway.

Kristen M. Mueller, 28, of Wentzville, was driving east on the highway about 6:30 a.m. when her car struck the median, the Missouri Highway Patrol said. Mark J. Hucke, 58, of O'Fallon, driving a pickup, apparently did not see the disabled car. His truck ran into the rear of the car while she was in it.

Mueller is hospitalized in serious condition. Her unborn child survived the crash. Hucke had minor injuries.

EAST ST. LOUIS

Woman sentenced in Katrina fraud

Deangela L. Dixon, 49, of Fairview Heights, was sentenced Friday to 10 months in federal prison on mail fraud charges after she pretended to be a victim of Hurricane Katrina.

Dixon admitted that she applied for federal disaster aid in September 2005 by claiming she lost her belongings in the hurricane. The address where she claimed to live in New Orleans did not exist. Dixon, in fact, lived in Gary, Ind., when Katrina hit. Dixon pleaded guilty in federal court in East St. Louis in October.

Dixon was ordered to pay the $2,000 that she illegally collected in FEMA aid plus a $250 fine.

She must serve three years of probation after her release.

OVERLAND

Missing Overland man is found unharmed

Andrew Kornblum, 53, of Overland, who had been missing since Feb. 3, has been found safe, police said.

Kornblum walked away from caretakers at the Boarding Inn at 9444 Midland Boulevard. Police said he traveled to the Springfield, Mo., area and returned safely Thursday.

ST. CHARLES COUNTY

O'Fallon man charged with statutory sodomy

A man from O'Fallon, Mo., is accused of having sex with a girl younger than 12. Joseph L. Licavoli Jr., 35, of the 100 block of Brushy Brook Drive, was charged Friday with one count of statutory sodomy. Police said the sexual contact happened between Sept. 25 and Sept. 28.

Licavoli was held in lieu of a $50,000 bond.