Absent: Alondra, Bryan Missing uniform: Ana, Xena, Kim, Alberto, Stephen, Eliott, and Davin

Missing homework:

Andrew, Amanda, Alexis, Davin. Christian, Ana, Kim, Eliott, and Davin.

Behavior: Talking and disrupting learning:Christian, Ana, Andrew, Xen, Cecilia, Estevan, Lisseth, Irwin, Eliott, Davin

Out of seat: Oscar C., Lisseth

Davin was caught reading a “Naruto” comic book during math (I put it in the June box.)

Calling Mariah and Lisseth “snitches” because they told me that Eliott had his PSP in class: Eliott, Stephen, Christian, Irwin, and Andrew

Eliott kept dropping Cinthia’s papers on the floor

We had a class meeting about the use of the word “snitch” and discussed “righteous” terms like integrity, honor, truth, respect, etc. but there seems to be the mentality that not telling when you see a wrong is showing respect and integrity.

I turned in Eliott’s PSP to Mr. Moore and after Eliott ate lunch, I took him to the office to call home regarding a need for a parent conference. When we arrived there, Mr. Moore must have gotten additional information because he suspended Eliott on the spot. I wonder if it had something to do with my asking Eric to help Mr. Moore get access to the info on the PSP??? Three girls claimed that Eliott had shown them pornographic pictures. (Isn’t that really serious sexual harrassment? In the workplace an employee who did this would be fired on the spot.) I think he needs to be removed from the school and/or district.

Red alerts went home with Tony for repeated infractions (mostly talking and laughing during instruction) and to Davin for talking, failing to get to work multiple times and shaking Mariah’s desk and bothering her.

Mr. York called after school to tell us that the PAL girls from our class are worried about retaliation, so he doesn’t want us to say anything to the class just yet. He will be talking to the administrators first. They relayed to him that they saw Andrew hand a baggie of some suspicious substance (marijuana?) to his brother Stephen through the fence today. They also know that Ana is cutting herself and drawing blood. They said there are several scratches on her arms.

LA: We read a chapter from Bridge to T and answered questions and multiple meaning words. Writing: Students wrote their subtopic paragraph. They are to be finished with sub-topic 1 & 2 today and tomorrow. On Monday they will write their 3rd sub-topic and Tuesday they should begin writing their introductory paragraph. I will have a sample of mine written and on the board for you. Wednesday we will document our sources (will be teaching that day.) Thursday and Friday we will work on our summary paragraph Math Intervention: Math: Science: ELD: Meeting and follow-up for RtI:

Cindy, this is a really sad story about Jessica Osuna’s brother who was killed in Anaheim during a police chase this past Sunday. Maybe we could send some flowers or a card to Jessica and her family.

Man killed in police chase was student, athlete

Christian Osuna, 20, was soccer player with dreams of entering major league and was studying to be engineer.

By DEEPA BHARATHThe Orange County Register | Recommend 8

ANAHEIM – Friends and family members of a 20-year-old man, who died Sunday after crashing his motorcycle during a high-speed police chase, say they are in a state of shock and puzzled by Christian Osuna’s “out-of-character” behavior.

The Osuna they knew was a full-time student who was completing coursework at Fullerton College and Cal State Fullerton, majoring in mechanical engineering. Osuna was also holding a job at Kragen Auto Parts in Placentia. Above all, he was a star soccer player who was on his way to the major leagues, says Robert Rodriguez, his soccer coach at Loara High School.

“He was a young guy and liked to have fun,” Rodriguez said. “But he was also a very responsible, good person. He just wasn’t that kind of guy.”

The Orange County coroner listed Christian’s last name as Paraza, but his father, Pablo Osuna, said his son’s last name is the same as his.

Anaheim police officials said officers started following Osuna on Sunday afternoon when they saw him riding at 90 mph on city streets and after Osuna rode through a red light. The chase, which lasted only three minutes, ended on Orange Avenue when Osuna lost control of his motorcycle as he tried to go around a car, officials said. He became separated from his motorcycle.

Rocio Estrada, Osuna’s long-time soccer coach, said she was driving her van side by side with Osuna’s motorcycle on Beach Road right up to the intersection of Ball Road, where the pursuit began. She said he seemed to be riding “perfectly normal” until then. Estrada made a right on Ball Road while Osuna continued on Beach, she said.

“Three minutes after I saw him, he was dead,” she said. “I just think and wonder about what was going through his mind at that time.”

They were returning from a soccer game at Goldenwest College where Osuna had played “brilliantly,” Estrada said.

“He played defense that day, but Christian is so good he could play from any position,” she said. “His last game was the best game he ever played.”

Martinez said the officers who pursued Osuna did their best to stop him, but couldn’t.

“No officer was able to keep up with him,” he said. “All of our decisions were based on the decisions of the suspect. We saw that he violated the law. He ran two red lights. He was traveling at more than 90 mph on city streets, which is highly unusual.”

The entire pursuit lasted only three minutes, which meant officers had to make a split-second decision, Martinez said.

Osuna had been riding his Suzuki GSX-R600 for about two months, said his brother, Jhovani Osuna, 17. He bought the motorcycle from their cousin right about the time when the Osuna family moved from Anaheim to Corona, Jhovani said.

Suzuki’s Web site says its GSX-R600 model was “developed and refined on racetracks around the world” and that it features the “most powerful, most efficient 600 cc four-cylinder engine ever built by Suzuki.”

Jhovani describes his brother as a fun-loving person.

“He was always joking and playing around, a great brother,” he said, choking up.

The last time he saw his brother was Saturday night when they watched a movie together, Jhovani said.

Estrada said Osuna was probably the only member of their soccer team, Juventus, who never drank alcohol, even at team parties.

Rodriguez said Osuna was slowly making his way up in local soccer leagues and had the potential to play Major League Soccer.

“He was a young guy with great talent,” he said. “With his talent, he could have got a free ride through university and played for a good major league team. This is truly a tragedy.”

In addition to his brother and his father, Osuna is survived by his mother, Martha, and his sister, Jessica.