A Cook County jury has awarded $1.5 million to the family of a 28-year-old man fatally shot by Chicago police in 2009, attorneys said.

Matthias Mayhorn, a convicted felon wanted on an investigative alert for a domestic incident, was at his home March 10, 2009, when police Officers Henry Thomas and Patrick Kane entered the home in plain clothes, according to the lawsuit. Mayhorn fled to his second-floor bedroom and tried to escape through the window when the officers grabbed his legs, attorneys for Mayhorn's estate said in a news release.

Advertisement

The officers then fired several shots at him while he was hanging out of the window, dropped him onto the pavement and waited to summon medical assistance, according to the lawsuit. A gun was recovered from the scene.

Mayhorn had a history of convictions for several felonies, including aggravated domestic battery, possession of a firearm and escape from a peace officer, according to records. He was sentenced to prison in each case and had been last released in 2004.

Advertisement

Mayhorn's family first filed suit in November 2009 against the city and the police officers involved.

During the trial, presided over by Judge James Varga, the city's defense attorneys said the police officers had shot Mayhorn twice when he refused to drop his own weapon and were justified in their use of deadly force, attorneys for Mayhorn's estate said.

But the estate's attorneys argued it was more likely Mayhorn was not shot during the struggle with police at the window but instead was shot in the gangway below, where he did not pose a deadly threat to police officers.

Forensic evidence presented at the trial showed the path of the gunshots to the back of Mayhorn's head and leg, suggesting he had been shot at a distance, attorneys said.

According to court records, the jury answered "no" when asked, "Was Henry Thomas reasonable in his belief that using deadly force against Matthias Mayhorn was necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself (Thomas) or Patrick Kane?"

The jury awarded Mayhorn's family $1.5 million for the loss Mayhorn's three young children suffered from his death, an attorney for the estate said Saturday in confirming the jury verdict.