CEDAR FALLS - Police have released the name of a man who spurred a three-hour standoff with police before committing suicide.

Daniel J. Myers, 37, was found dead in a Country Terrace mobile home after police surrounding the mobile home heard a gunshot early Wednesday morning.

Police were called to the mobile home at his residence, 700 W. Ridgeway, lot 440, at 11:14 p.m. Tuesday. They had a report of a suicidal man inside with a woman and two children.

About an hour after police arrived, they talked the man into letting the woman, whom police identified as his wife, Marcell Frost-Myers, and two children go.

Police continued to talk with the man for two hours, until they heard a gunshot inside the home. They later entered the home and found the man dead.

Neighbors said the people who live in the mobile home mostly kept to themselves, which they say is the norm for the neighborhood.

Residents of nearby mobile homes saw police tactical unit teams armed with automatic weapons and wearing bulletproof vests setting up in a perimeter around the mobile home.

Bob Ford lives in a mobile home kitty-corner from the home where the suicide happened. He was awakened by police at about 11:30 p.m. He and his wife were told to get out immediately, so they drove down the block and parked.

"We sat a block away and waited it out. We were out there three hours," Ford said.

Other residents of neighboring homes were also told to leave by police during the standoff.

Ford knew little of the family that lived in the mobile home.

Cedar Falls Police Chief Jeff Olson said police had not yet determined what had caused the victim's distress.

Services for Myers will be 1:30 pm Tuesday at Dahl-Van Hove-Schoof Funeral Home, 266-7525, with burial at a later date. Visitation will be one hour before service at the funeral home. Memorials may be directed to the family.

Contact Jon Ericson at (319) 291-1461 or Jonathan.Ericson@wcfcourier.com

EARLIER STORY

CEDAR FALLS - A 3 1/2 hour overnight standoff between police and a distraught man ended tragically when the man took his own life, Cedar Falls Police Chief Jeff Olson said.

Olson said at about 11 p.m. Tuesday, Cedar Falls police were called to a residence at Country Terrace mobile home park, 700 W. Ridgeway Ave., on a report of a person inside with a gun. A woman and two children also were inside.

The police tactical unit was deployed, Olson said. "We talked to the individual for a considerable amount of time. We got him to allow the other residents to leave," about an hour into the incident.

"We stayed on the phone with him for a couple more hours," Olson said. "While we were on the phone with him, there was a gunshot, and we have one deceased male." He said the man killed himself at about 2:40 a.m. today.

Olson declined to identify the deceased individual pending notification of family, except to say he was a male adult.

Police believed the situation was headed in a positive direction when the man allowed the other residents to leave. "We were very relieved when that happened," Olson said. "Once that was done, we had plenty of time to talk and try to work things out."

In such situations, sometimes it appears "things are headed in the right direction, other times they don't," Olson said. "That's how this went."

Contact Pat Kinney at (319) 291-1426 or pat.kinney@wcfcourier.com.