A 24-year-old suspected drug dealer was shot to death by police Monday in the year's first fatal police shooting after he raised a weapon at officers following a lengthy car chase on the Northwest Side, police said.

Two police officers fired at least four shots after the suspect, Thomas Koza, allegedly brandished a .380-caliber semiautomatic pistol as officers approached his wrecked Ford Explorer at Irving Park Road and Laramie Avenue.

Advertisement

Koza, of the 2300 block of North Harlem Avenue, was struck at least two times in the left side and was pronounced dead at Illinois Masonic Medical Center about 2:25 p.m., less than an hour after the incident began.

Police said they had been tipped over the weekend to watch for Koza, who had also lived in Lemont and was thought to be dealing drugs on the Northwest Side.

Advertisement

With his name, description and the make of his vehicle, police staked out the pet store where he worked about two blocks west of the Grand Central District on West Grand Avenue.

It was not clear if Koza was arriving at the shop for work. But as soon as he drove up at about 1:30 p.m., police officials said one uniformed officer and two plainclothes tactical officers pulled in behind his vehicle.

The officers got out of their cars and walked up to the Explorer.

Before any discussion began, police said Koza accelerated his vehicle, slamming into the rear of a white van parked in front of him. He then reversed, striking two officers, before speeding off.

The officers suffered only minor injuries and were able to get back in their cars and give chase. It was unclear Monday whether the officers knew at that time that Koza was armed.

But after officers caught up with him at Diversey and Central Avenues, where Koza again allegedly rammed his Explorer into other motorists to flee the scene, officers spotted him holding a pistol, police spokesman Pat Camden said.

One of the two officers struck on Grand was hit again by Koza's vehicle as they tried to wrestle him from the Explorer. After seeing the weapon, police fired one shot at the Explorer, but Koza sped away, Camden said.

The chase picked up again, leading about two more miles north to Irving Park Road before squad cars were able to trap him against a curb just outside a Porsche car dealership near Laramie.

Advertisement

The impact with the curb caused the front left wheel of Koza's Explorer to snap off, while the right front tire was flattened. A squad car that ended up nearly parallel to the Explorer had its front end partly smashed, and an officer in the car suffered minor injuries when the squad car's airbag deployed, police said.

As officers approached his vehicle, Koza allegedly raised the pistol and was shot. Police said they found three to four grams of crack cocaine after the shooting, but it was unclear if it was discovered in the vehicle or on Koza.

There were witness accounts that Koza fired from his Explorer during the three-mile chase. But police said Monday they do not believe he fired his weapon. Still, Camden said officers could clearly see he was armed, threatening the officers.

Last fall, the Police Department rewrote its rules for the use of deadly force and all but banned officers from firing into a suspect's vehicle.

Essentially, a vehicle could no longer be considered a weapon under the change. However, in extreme cases, such as a suspect firing at an officer or civilian from his car, exceptions would be made.