A suspected bank robber killed by Kansas City police Monday had been released from federal prison in January on a bank robbery conviction, authorities said Tuesday.

Dennis Watson, 55, was not carrying a gun when fatally shot near Ninth and Olive streets just minutes after a 4:30 p.m. holdup at the Central Bank, 2301 Independence Ave., police said.

He allegedly robbed the bank Monday holding his hands in his jacket pockets in a way that looked as if he had a gun.

A police helicopter crew spotted him running from the bank and watched him strip off his jacket and drop a backpack in a vacant lot near Eighth and Olive streets, police said.

A 33-year-old police officer and a 32-year-old assault squad detective chased him shortly before he darted into a parking lot for Olive Park Village.

The helicopter crew reported that the suspect kept putting his hands in his waistband as the officer and detective confronted him. He tried to get behind a car just before the shooting, the crew said.

The suspect said he was going to kill the officers, police said.

The officer fired nine shots. The detective, who was in dress clothes without a bullet-resistant vest, fired three shots. Police did not release the number of times bullets hit Watson.

Accounts from several witnesses who saw "bits and pieces" of the incident match the officer's and detective's accounts, said Police Capt. Rich Lockhart.

Police recovered the discarded backpack but did not find any money inside. Police said the robber only got a handful of bills from the bank and likely dropped or threw them away as he ran.

Bank surveillance images of the robber match Watson, police said.

Watson was on probation after being released from prison Jan. 12 for robbing the U.S. Bank at 1125 Grand Blvd. on May 26, 2005. In that holdup, he threatened a teller and demanded money. Another teller recognized Watson as a regular customer who had cashed a traveler's check the previous day by signing his name and providing his driver's license number.

To reach Christine Vendel, call 816-234-4438 or send e-mail to cvendel@kcstar.com.

To see more of The Kansas City Star, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.kansascity.com.

Copyright © 2009, The Kansas City Star, Mo.

Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services.