Four Twin Falls police officers were justified in shooting and killing Randy J. Holler Jr. at the Dunes Motel last March 17, Ada County Prosecutor Greg Bower announced Wednesday.

In a press conference at the Twin Falls County Courthouse, Bower revealed that the four officers fired 20 shots - hitting Holler 17 times - when Holler brandished a pistol as they attempted to arrest him for a probation violation.

Holler, 20, of Twin Falls, was on probation for a grand theft conviction. He did not fire his pistol, Bower said.

Officers Tim Arredondo, Nate Silvester and Dave Frick, of the patrol division, and Det. Dan Clements, of the criminal investigation division, all fired shots, said Twin Falls Police Chief Jim Munn.

The four officers were placed on administrative leave on March 18, according to Munn. Sgt. Charles Garner, Officer Dusty Solomon, of the patrol division, and Det. Ken Rivers, of the criminal investigation division, were also present but did not fire their weapons.

They, too, were placed on leave on March 19 and all officers underwent psychological screening according to protocol, said Munn.

All were believed to have returned to duty by March 25, though Munn could not confirm that date.

"The officers involved acted responsibly and professionally under circumstances which happened so fast that a number of split-second decisions had to be made," said Bower. "We decline, in this case, to file any charges against officers."

Munn called the incident "a tragedy in our community, but the officers did act in a professional and responsible way."

Bower said the incident began when a citizen called law enforcement to report Holler after seeing a "wanted" poster in the window of a bail bond agent.

A written news release summarized the investigation's findings as follows:

Two officers went to the Dunes Motel on West Addison Avenue and found Joseph Goins and Solomon Hanks in Room 2. The men were later identified as "close associates" of Holler, said Ada County Deputy Prosecutor Shawna Dunn.

The officers saw Holler come out of the motel room's bathroom carrying a 9 mm handgun.

Silvester - the only officer named in the news release - struggled with Holler, shooting him in the chest.

Holler then broke free from the two officers and ran into the motel parking lot.

An officer in the parking lot said he saw Holler "sweeping" his gun at him. Another officer reported seeing Holler point his gun back toward the motel room, where Silvester and the other officer were standing in the doorway. All four officers then fired at him from three different positions.

Paramedics at the scene determined they could not save Holler's life and ceased treatment.

Dunn said authorities believe Holler was shot a total of 17 times. She said one bullet was recovered from a parked car; one spent slug was found nearby; and one was never accounted for.

Bower said no shots were fired by Holler and the officers ceased fire after Holler was down. The press release did not indicate if Holler's weapon - stolen in an earlier residential burglary - was loaded, but did say ammunition was found in a small black bag in the bathroom. Goins and Hanks had seen Holler with the bag that day.

Munn declined comment on details of the incident.

Autopsy and lab reports indicate that Holler had methamphetamine and THC (marijuana) in his system. Additionally, a plastic bag with 2.58 grams of methamphetamine was found in his clothing, according to Dunn.

Goins and Hanks told authorities Holler was "tweaking" - agitated from the effects of drug use - and instructed them not to open the door for police "because he would go to jail."

The black bag with the ammunition also contained drug paraphernalia, Bower said.

Goins said he saw Holler with a gun earlier that day, according to the press release. Hanks reported seeing "something black" in Holler's hand but believed it to be the small bag.

Hanks and Goins were not charged with crimes related to this event, said Idaho State Police Det. Jerod Sweesy.

Holler was originally placed on two years probation for charges of grand theft in 2007. According to court records, Holler was involved in a confrontation over drug money that led to the theft of a cellular phone in the parking lot of the Bel Isle Apartments, 750 Sparks St., in Twin Falls.

Holler completed a RIDER program and was released after six months on two years probation. Wrrants for Holler's arrest were issued on Feb. 11 after he failed to attend required meetings and again on Feb. 19 for alleged malicious injury to property. According to court records, the second warrant was issued after Holler broke down the front door of his former girlfriend's apartment.

Holler also had previous history of possession of drug paraphernalia, possession of a controlled substance, domestic battery and a juvenile history of petit theft, according to court records.

A Twin Falls Police Department internal review of the shooting and evaluation of department policy in relation to the use of deadly force is ongoing but should be finished soon, Munn said.

That review is considered a personnel matter and results will not be made public, he said.

"The officers had to make split second decisions that had to be evaluated for three to four months," Munn said, "and I think that's a reflection of their training and professionalism."

Nichole Carnell may be reached at ncarnell@magicvalley.com and 208-735-3376.

Fatal shootings The shooting of R.J. Holler was the third fatal shooting by police officers in Twin Falls County in two years. • On June 30, 2007, a shooting at WinCo Foods by city police officers Ben Mittelstadt and Steve Benkula ended in the death of Logan Brizzee, 19, a suspected shoplifter who drew a loaded gun on the lawmen. Both officers were cleared of criminal wrongdoing. • On Aug. 16, 2008, ISP Trooper Michael Wendler fatally shot 29-year-old Cody Hanks during a traffic stop near Kimberly, and was cleared by prosecutors of any wrongdoing.