Eugene E. Elder Sr. figures police killed his teenage son unjustifiably with a Taser, and he plans to fire back with a lawsuit.

"I'm going after the city. I don't care," said Elder, 55, of Bay City. "There's no reason for killing my boy. He didn't do nothing wrong."Elder conceded his 15-year-old son - Brett L. Elder - had been drinking alcohol Saturday night before police subdued him early Sunday morning with a Taser following a disturbance in a Bay City apartment.

But relatives said Brett "Dewey" Elder stood 5-foot-6 and weighed about 140 pounds. They said he was no match for three Bay City Police Department officers who encountered him in Cindy Hernden's apartment at 210 S. Catherine St.

"I believe they killed him," said Hernden, 40, a close friend of the Elder family.

"I believe his heart couldn't handle it," Hernden added. "I just figured that Taser was too strong for that small of a kid. He's tiny, and there were three grown police officers.

"They could have subdued him without handcuffs, but they handcuffed him and then Tasered him."

Bay City Deputy Police Chief Thomas P. Pletzke denied Hernden's allegation, saying Brett Elder wasn't in handcuffs when an officer deployed the Taser. Police plan a press conference about the incident at 10:30 a.m. this morning at Bay City Hall.

Pletzke declined comment when asked if Bay City officers should share any blame for Elder's death. Pletzke didn't identify the officer who used the Taser, but said the department has placed him on administrative leave.

UPDATE

Bay City police, witnesses disagree on what happened after Taser incident

Dr. Kanu Virani performed an autopsy on Brett Elder's body on Monday, but declined to offer an opinion on the cause of death until he learns results of toxicology tests checking levels of alcohol and other drugs in the boy's body.

Virani said he also will await results of a microscopic examination of the boy's tissues before determining a cause of death. That could take a few weeks.

Funeral services for Brett Elder haven't been set yet, according to Ambrose Funeral Home, 1200 Garfield Ave., which will handle arrangements.

Hernden said a relative of Brett Elder dropped the teenager off at her house early Sunday morning, and that Brett Elder had been drinking alcohol.

"Brett's been coming to my house regularly since he's been 3 years old, and his mom (the late Jodi Elder) died in September of last year and since then Brett has been in daily contact with me," Hernden said.

"When his mother died, I was like his surrogate mother."

Cindy Hernden said six people were spending the night at her apartment, and one of them told Brett Elder to quiet down, "and at that point he kind of grabbed her and put her in a headlock."

Hernden said she then dialed 911, and believes the boyfriend of the woman also called police.

"The other people in the apartment were trying to subdue Brett and calm him down," Hernden said. "Three police officers came in the door and asked what was going on. Everybody at this point was screaming and yelling at each other, and it was getting out of hand."

Pletzke said police were summoned to the scene to quell a reported fight.

Hernden said police managed to calm Brett Elder - temporarily.

"The officers had calmed Brett down and he was sitting on a couch, and then one officer said something to him, and Brett stood up like he was maybe going to lunge at the police," Hernden said.

"And right then and there is when they put the handcuffs on him. They knocked him on the ground and that's when they Tasered him."

Hernden said Brett Elder vomited "immediately" after police used the Taser.

"I told the police 'He's not breathing, he's not breathing,' and I told them I know (cardiopulmonary resuscitation), and one of the officers told me to shut up," Hernden said.

"They told me to stand back and wait for a medical professional to arrive, so that's what I did."

Hernden said Brett Elder wasn't armed when he moved toward officers inside her apartment.

Pletzke said police officers deploy a Taser to protect citizens as well as police officers. He declined comment about why his officer used the Taser against Brett Elder, saying he doesn't want to jeopardize the Michigan State Police's investigation of the incident.

Relatives of Brett Elder said police arrested the late youth's half-brother at Bay Regional Medical Center on Sunday morning following a scuffle with security personnel at the hospital after rescuers had taken Brett Elder there.

The half-brother hasn't been arraigned yet on criminal charges.

Eugene Elder Sr. said his late son loved to ride bicycles with him, and would have turned 16 today. He said his son had undergone treatment for alcohol abuse, but had been avoiding alcohol in recent weeks.

"He didn't like cops because he knows the rest of us don't, but he wasn't out to get them," Elder said.

Brett Elder's aunt, Dorothy A. Hendrix of Bay City, said Brett Elder was "devastated" by the death of his mother in September.

"He didn't even weigh 150 pounds," Hendrix said. "They Tasered a little kid."