The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Officer that was involved in the car accident that led to one death and several injuries resigned from the police department this week.

The accident originally occurred in March. Martray Proctor of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg police department was responding to assist another police officer on a routine traffic stop. He was traveling 90mph on Old Statesville Road, a road with a posted speed limit of 45 mph. He did not have his sirens or blue lights on.

Shatona Evette Robinson, a 20 year old from Davidson, North Carolina (NC) had made a left turn on to Old Statesville Road when Martray Proctor collided with her vehicle. Wreckage from the car accident showed that Proctor’s police car had forced Shatona Evette Robinson’s vehicle over 50 yards.

At the time of the accident Robinson had three other passengers in her car; her two cousins Wyatt Morrison and Akeem Robinson, and her friend Topaz White. Wyatt Morrison, Akeem Robinson and Topaz White were sent to local Charlotte, North Carolina (NC) hospitals with minor injuries. Officer Proctor was sent to the hospital with a broken arm. Tragically, Shatona Evette Robinson died from the injuries she sustained in the car accident.

This is not the first car accident of its kind to happen in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department. In 2000, Sara Gaffney died after being involved in a car accident with a police cruiser. Later that year, Geoffrey Darwin died in the same manner. According to Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Chief, Rodney Monroe none of these tragic accidents were taken lightly. Measures were taken by the internal training staff to improve road safety among the police officers, and every car accident went through an internal investigation. In all three reported fatal car accidents the police officer involved resigned.

Sadly, those paid to protect and serve can make mistakes behind the wheel. If you are driving on any major roadway it is imperative that you look for any car traveling faster then the posted speed limit. You can not always rely on the police cruiser to have the flashing lights or sirens on. Speeding vehicles are far more likely to hit slower cars traveling the speed limit. Pay special attention at turns and intersections for any type of car that may be breaking the speed laws.

Shapiro, Cooper Lewis & Appleton personal injury law firm is based in Virginia (VA), with an office also in Elizabeth City, in Northeast North Carolina (NC), practicing primarily in the southeastern U.S. and handles only injury law, including car, truck, railroad, and medical negligence cases and more. Our Carolina injury law website is: http://carolina.hsinjurylaw.com, the firm edits the injury law blogs Virginia Beach Injuryboard, Norfolk Injuryboard, as well as the Northeast North Carolina Injuryboard and also hosts a YouTube injury law video library covering many FAQ’s on personal injury subjects. Lawyers licensed in: VA, NC, SC, WV, DC, KY.

AC