A homeless man died by accident when his van smashed into a power pole after being intentionally bumped by a San Rafael police car, a jury concluded at a coroner’s inquest Tuesday.

The nine-member jury made the finding after deliberating for 15 minutes.

The son of a retired Chicago police officer, Ian Minich, 29, died March 30 on Point San Pedro Road in East San Rafael after San Rafael police Officer Tom Collins struck the back of his van in an attempt to stop him. Collins testified Tuesday that, fearing for the public’s safety, he attempted to force the van to the right shoulder. Instead, to his surprise, the van spun out of control and struck a utility pole near Summit Drive, killing Minich instantly.

The fatal wreck occurred after Minich led police on an erratic chase, collided with two police cars and tried to run down a motorcycle officer.

Coroner Ken Holmes makes a practice of holding an inquest when an officer-involved death occurs. Four findings are possible: accident; suicide; natural causes; or at the hands of another person other than by accident. The finding is nonbinding and does not require action by the district attorney’s office, officials said.

“It’s not my judgment if (the officers) did anything wrong. It’s not my judgment if Mr. Minich did anything wrong,” Holmes said. “My judgment is what happened to cause his death.

“I think it’s important,” he said. “It eases that good-old-boy thing.”

Minich was behind the wheel of a 1997 GMC Astrovan parked at the Ritter Center when officers, summoned by the center’s staff to evict Minich, approached him about 11 that morning; he was asked to leave the center, where he got his mail, after causing a disturbance.

Minich left but drew attention again a few minutes later for driving recklessly. Police began to pursue him but broke off the chase after he dropped out of sight.

He was spotted outside his parked van a few minutes later off Point San Pedro Road on Beach Drive. When officers approached him, he got back into the van and pulled away.

The chase resumed, and the van made several U-turns during the pursuit, driving the wrong way in east and westbound lanes before police said he collided with two police cars and then aimed for motorcycle Officer Robert Henkle, who was stopped along Porto Bello Drive. The officer jumped from his motorcycle into bushes seconds before the van struck and totaled the bike, police said.

Collins took off after the suspect, striking him from behind in an attempt to stop the van, which the officer said was headed for a large group of pedestrians who left their cars along the side of the road. After the impact, the van disappeared around a corner and smashed into a utility pole near Summit Avenue at high speed – killing Minich instantly.

The inquest is the first time the details of the incident have been fully aired publicly. Police in the past have not elaborated on the steps Collins took to halt the van just before it crashed.

Minich had a history of strange behavior, said sheriff’s Detective Matt Stott, one of six detectives involved in the investigation. The investigation into Minich’s actions is complete and has been forwarded to the district attorney’s office for review, said sheriff’s officials, who declined to release the recommendation.

Minich lost jobs in a framing store and in a toy store in San Rafael for acting “a little bit bizarre around employees,” Stott said. Similar behavior was reported in Portland, Ore., where Minich lived briefly, he said. In late 2008, Minich was hospitalized for several days on a mental health hold initiated by Twin Cities police, said Stott, who said the physician who treated Minich said she believed he had an untreated mental disorder and was not medicated. No drugs or alcohol were found in Minich’s system after the autopsy was performed, coroner’s officials said.

“Initially, I called Mr. (John) Minich to advise him of his son’s death. I explained in general terms why I was investigating,” said Stott, who said he explained to the 39-year veteran Chicago officer that evidence suggested his son tried to run over a police officer.

“His response to me was, ‘He probably thought it was me,'” Stott said. “Ever since Ian had gotten out of college, they’d often suspected he had some mental-health history. He basically explained it to me that he thought Ian was bi-polar to authority.”

Henkle, a 14-year veteran San Rafael police officer who suffered minor injuries to his shoulder, elbow, right ankle and right knee jumping clear of his motorcycle, recalled the events leading up to the near-death experience.

“There’s a blind corner. As I came around the straight-away, I could see the white van coming,” Henkle said. “At the time I saw him coming toward me. I turned into the left-hand-turn pocket at Porto Bello. I got as far against the center median as I could.

“I started to think in my mind, ‘Get off the motorcycle in case something happens,'” he recalled. “The van made a direct right turn and proceeded in my direction at a high rate of speed.

“In a split second as the van was coming toward me, I was able to jump clear of my motorcycle,” Henkle testified. “As I was still airborne, I could hear the van running over my motorcycle.

“I felt at the time and I still do believe that Mr. Minich made that turn in my direction with the intent to severely injure me or kill me. That’s why I jumped from the motorcycle,” Henkle testified. “I didn’t have time to do anything else, and I barely got there.”

Collins, a 12-year officer, testified that he watched as Minich clipped the front of his squad car, seriously damaged his partner’s vehicle and then attempted to strike a third officer on a motorcycle before making the decision to stop the suspect any way he could.

“Traffic had stopped in both lanes ahead of me. A bunch of people had pulled off to the side. At this time I felt someone else was going to get hurt,” he said. “After the two collisions I just felt it was time to get him off the road.

“I was thinking I could just push him,” he said. “I caught up to the bumper of his vehicle. He kind of weaved. I turned into his vehicle. I hit his vehicle ever so slightly and then I spun him out.”

“Your strike caused his vehicle to spin,” Stuart Willis, a criminal defense attorney from Martinez who conducted the proceeding, said to Collins. “Did you anticipate that?”

“No,” Collins said.

“… What you did was what you thought was the best chance to reach a safe conclusion?” Willis asked.

“Yes,” Collins said.

Contact Jennifer Upshaw via e-mail at jupshaw@marinij.com