Arrest Report - Tuesday - August 1, 2023 Here is the latest arrest report from the Chattooga County Sheriff’s Office for Tuesday, August 1, 2023:

Former Long John Silvers Building Sells On Courthouse Steps The former Long John Silvers building on Commerce Street in Summerville sold on the courthouse steps on Tuesday morning. The property was one of the many properties sold for delinquent taxes. According to the Chattooga County Tax Commissioner’s Office, there were $8,541.68 in back taxes due on the property. The building and .88 acres sold for $110,000 and was purchased by T&W Enterprises – a real estate development company headquartered on Broad Street in Rome.

Overturned Dump Truck Shuts Down Highway 48 On Monday Afternoon An overturned dump truck at the Raccoon Creek Bridge construction site on Highway 48 between Summerville and Menlo closed the highway yesterday afternoon. The Georgia State Patrol Post in Rome released the following preliminary report: On Monday, July 31, 2023, Troopers from Post 38 Rome responded to a single vehicle crash on GA 48 in the Raccoon Creek Bridge construction area, in Chattooga County. A dump truck was traveling east on GA 48 when the vehicle left the roadway and struck several crash attenuators and a concrete retaining wall. The dump truck traveled on top of the retaining wall before rolling onto the driver’s side. The driver was checked on scene by EMS but was not injured from the crash. Troopers say that the crash is still under investigation.

Armed Robbery In Rome On Monday The Rome Police Department responded to a reported armed robbery in West Rome early Monday. According to the incident report: The clerk at Redmond Food Mart at 1389 Redmond Circle told officers that he had closed the store and was restocking the shelves when an older lady knocked at the door and asked to use the restroom. He let the woman in but forgot to lock the door. About five minutes later, a white male entered the store, produced a handgun, and demanded money. The suspect took $2,300 in cash from the register and another drawer, along with two cell phones and a work tablet before leaving the store. The robbery was caught on the security camera. The phones and the tablet were recovered from a trash can at the store, and clothing matching the description of what the suspect was wearing was recovered from a vacant lot across the street from the store. WRGA

AHA Presents AdventHealth Redmond With Two Gold Plus Get With The Guideline Awards AdventHealth Redmond has received two American Heart Association Get With The Guidelines achievement awards for following up-to-date, research-based guidelines for the treatment of heart disease and stroke. Following evidenced based guidance which ultimately leads to more lives saved, shorter recovery times and fewer readmissions to the hospital. Every 40 seconds, someone in the U.S. has a stroke or heart attack. Heart disease and stroke are the No. 1 and No. 5 causes of death in the United States, respectively. Studies show patients can recover better when providers consistently follow treatment guidelines. Get With The Guidelines puts the expertise of the American Heart Association and American Stroke Association to work for hospitals nationwide, helping ensure patient care is aligned with the latest evidence- and research-based guidelines. As a participant, AdventHealth Redmond qualified for the award by demonstrating how their organization has improved the quality of care. “AdventHealth Redmond adheres to the latest treatment guidelines and has streamlined processes to ensure timely and proper care for the acute emergency of stroke, and also congestive heart failure care,” said Isaac Sendros, president and CEO of AdventHealth Redmond. “Our team works quickly and tirelessly to meet and exceed the latest guidelines for care, which helps us ensure more people in Northwest Georgia experience longer, healthier lives.” This year, AdventHealth Redmond received the following achievement awards: · Get With The Guidelines® – Heart Failure GOLD PLUS with Target: Heart Failure Honor Roll and Target: Type 2 Diabetes Honor Roll · Get With The Guidelines – Stroke GOLD PLUS with Target: Stroke Honor Roll Elite Plus and Target: Type 2 Diabetes Honor Roll Stroke is a leading cause of disability in the U.S. A stroke occurs when a blood vessel that carries oxygen and nutrients to the brain is either blocked by a clot or bursts. When that happens, part of the brain cannot get the blood and oxygen it needs, so brain cells die. Early stroke detection and treatment are key to improving survival, minimizing disability and accelerating recovery times. AdventHealth Redmond also received the American Heart Association’s Target: Stroke Honor Roll Elite Plus award by timely treatment with alteplase, the clot busting drug when indicated. the hospital also received the American Heart Association’s Target: Type 2 Honor Roll award. Target: Type 2 Diabetes aims to ensure patients with Type 2 diabetes, who might be at higher risk for complications, receive the most up-to-date, evidence-based care when hospitalized due to stroke. AdventHealth Redmond provides complete heart and vascular care for our community. Signs of stroke or heart attack are a medical emergency, and warrant calling 911 for best outcome. AdventHealth Redmond also provides care for chronic health conditions including Heart Failure and anticoagulant management. “We are pleased to recognize AdventHealth Redmond for its commitment to caring for those in their community who need cardiovascular and stroke care,” said John Warner, MD, FAHA, past president of the American Heart Association and CEO of The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center. “Hospitals that follow the American Heart Association’s quality improvement protocols often see improved patient outcomes, fewer readmissions and lower mortality rates – a win for health care systems, families and communities.”

Ribbon Cutting At Three Penny Treasures Today

Gas Prices Edge Upward Again Georgia gas prices continue to increase at the pump compared to a week ago. Georgia drivers are now paying an average price of $3.55 per gallon for regular unleaded gasoline (subject to change overnight). Monday’s state average was 19 cents more than a week ago, 33 cents more than a month ago, and 23 cents less than this time last year. It now costs an average of $53.25 to fill a 15-gallon tank of regular gasoline. Drivers are paying almost $4.00 less to fill up at the pump compared to a year ago. “The steady increase of crude oil prices and refineries having to adjust production because of soaring temperatures causes pump prices to elevate,” said Montrae Waiters, AAA-The Auto Club Group spokeswoman. “The cost of oil accounts for more than 50% of what we pay at the pumps, Georgians may not catch a break regarding gas prices any time soon if crude oil continues to rise.” Like the Sizzling Temperatures, Gas Prices Climb Higher Since last Monday, the national average for a gallon of regular gasoline has increased by 16 cents to $3.75 (subject to change overnight). The primary cause appears to be the oil price, which has marched nearly $4 higher in the past week to hover near $80 per barrel. According to data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA), gas demand rose slightly from 8.86 to 8.94 million barrels a day. Meanwhile, total domestic gasoline stocks dipped from 218.4 to 217.6 million barrels. With supplies tight, if demand should spike, pump prices will follow suit. Regional Prices: The most expensive Georgia metro markets – are Atlanta ($3.59), Savannah ($3.56), and Augusta-Aiken ($3.53). The least expensive Georgia metro markets – are Albany ($3.47), Rome ($3.46), and Catoosa-Dade-Walker ($3.45). Area gas price averages – Chattooga ($3.47), Walker ($3.46), Floyd ($3.48), Gordon ($3.53), DeKalb, AL ($3.31), Cherokee, AL ($3.30)

Windstream Kinetic Will Host Town Hall About Broadband Expansion Chattooga County Commissioner Blake Elsberry has announced that his office has requested the use of Chattooga High School for the Fiber Broadband Project Town Hall hosted by Windstream on August the 15th at 5 PM. The Chattooga County Board of Education met last Thursday morning and approved the meeting. According to the commissioner, the project will expand fiber service to over 2,000 Chattooga County residents in areas of the county that have poor internet service. In February of 2022, Governor Brian Kemp announced that Chattooga County would receive $3,040,732 to expand internet in under-served areas. The funding is part of $408 million in federal COVID-relief funds that the governor has designated to be used in 70 rural counties across the state to expand broadband access. Commissioner Elsberry said at the time, “This is very exciting for Chattooga County. This project was made possible through a partnership with Chattooga County and Windstream to address some of the unserved areas of our county. This is a great first step towards working on having reliable internet throughout the county.”

Man Arrested After Incident At Tax Office A forty-two-year-old man was arrested at the Chattooga County Tax Commissioner’s Office on Friday of last week. According to a report from the Summerville Police Department, William Sanders Readye came to the tax commissioner’s office to confront his girlfriend. The suspect’s girlfriend was in the lobby of the tax office when the incident began. Readye then came inside the tax office and began “yelling and cursing at his girlfriend in regards to a male subject” with her. Summerville Police responded to the scene and arrested Readye, charging him with disorderly conduct.

Georgia Resident Dies From Rare Brain Infection A Georgia resident has died from Naegleria fowleri infection, a rare infection which destroys brain tissue, causing brain swelling and usually death. The individual was likely infected while swimming in a freshwater lake or pond in Georgia. Naegleria fowleri is an amoeba (single-celled living organism) that lives in soil and warm, freshwater lakes, rivers, ponds, and hot springs. Naegleria fowleri is not found in salt water, such as the ocean, and it is not found in properly treated drinking water and swimming pools. Naegleria fowleri is commonly called the “brain-eating amoeba” because it can cause a brain infection, primary amebic meningoencephalitis (PAM), when water containing the amoeba goes up the nose. It cannot infect people if swallowed and is not spread from person to person. Only about three people in the United States get infected each year, but these infections are usually fatal. Symptoms of Naegleria fowleri infection typically start with severe headache, fever, nausea and vomiting and progress to stiff neck, seizures, and coma that can lead to death. Symptoms usually begin about five days after infection but can start within 1 to 12 days. Once symptoms start, the disease progresses rapidly and usually causes death within about five days. The amoeba is naturally occurring, and there is no routine environmental test for Naegleria fowleri in bodies of water; and because it is very common in the environment, levels of the amoebas that naturally occur cannot be controlled. The location and number of amoebas in the water can vary over time within the same body of water. Though the risk of infection is low, recreational water users should always assume there is a risk when they enter warm fresh water. If you choose to swim, you can reduce your risk of infection by limiting the amount of water that goes up the nose. Recommended precautions from the CDC include: • Avoid jumping or diving into bodies of warm fresh water, especially during the summer. • Hold your nose shut, use nose clips, or keep your head above water when in bodies of warm fresh water. • Avoid putting your head under water in hot springs and other untreated geothermal waters. • Avoid digging in, or stirring up, the sediment in shallow, warm fresh water. The amoebae are more likely to live in sediment at the bottom of lakes, ponds, and rivers. Prior to this newly confirmed case of Naegleria fowleri infection, there have been five other cases reported in Georgia since 1962. For more information about Naegleria fowleri, visit the CDC website https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/naegleria/index.html . For information about safe swimming, log on to https://dph.georgia.gov/health-topics/injury-prevention-program/safe-swimming .

Alabama & The Oak Ridge Boys Record New Bill Gaither Song ALABAMA and The Oak Ridge Boys have recorded together in-studio. “Jesus and John Wayne,” a new collaborative effort from two of the biggest bands in country music history, pays tribute to gospel music’s most legendary husband/wife songwriting duo, Bill and Gloria Gaither. The song was released to radio today and goes for adds on August 28. Stream / download “Jesus and John Wayne” HERE. It’s history in the making. For the first time ever, iconic country music groupsandhave recorded together in-studio. “,” a new collaborative effort from two of the biggest bands in country music history, pays tribute to gospel music’s most legendary husband/wife songwriting duo,and. The song was released to radio today and goes for adds on August 28. Stream / download “Jesus and John Wayne” “It was a fun song to record,” says ALABAMA’s Randy Owen. “Our version with The Oaks singing harmony with us gives this song a strong message.” “Jesus and John Wayne,” written by the Gaithers (Benjamin Gaither, Bill Gaither, Gloria Gaither and Kim Williams), tells the story of a young man journeying through life, attempting to walk the line between rugged cowboy and sainthood. “It was an honor to get invited to do a song on Bill and Gloria’s tribute project, especially on such a cool song,” adds ALABAMA’s Teddy Gentry. “And double-fun to have our Hall of Fame brothers, the fabulous Oak Ridge Boys, join us for the first time on a song!” For both bands, the thrill of finally recording together is a mutual sentiment. “It was so exciting to record with ALABAMA,” shares Duane Allen of The Oaks. “We have all grown up together in the music business and they are some of our very best friends. To record ‘Jesus and John Wayne’ with ALABAMA, a song written by Bill and Gloria Gaither, is a perfect way to combine the voices and careers of both groups and the writers of this song. We all grew up loving Jesus, and as little boys (we are still little boys at heart!), we also loved John Wayne. I hope you enjoy listening as much as we enjoyed singing with ALABAMA.” Gospel music icons and ASCAP’s Christian Songwriters of the Century Bill and Gloria Gaither have been writing masterpieces since they met over 60 years ago. Their songs have been recorded by countless performers, inspiring people around the world. With the upcoming release of Gaither Tribute, Honoring the Songs of Bill & Gloria Gaither, out August 25 via Gaither Music Group (distributed by Capitol Christian Music Group and Universal Music), the historic pairing of ALABAMA and The Oak Ridge Boys on “Jesus and John Wayne” marks the first radio single to drop. The collaborations of Bill and Gloria Gaither have resulted in more than 700 popular gospel songs, including the hymnal standards “Because He Lives” and “He Touched Me.” They have collectively garnered eight GRAMMY Awards and more than a dozen nominations; and they have received more than two dozen Gospel Music Association (GMA) DOVE Awards, earning the title “Songwriter of the Year” eight times.

John Turner Receives "Friend Of The Community Award" Last week, a dedication reception was held for the World Friendship Pocket Park in Summerville, leading up to the Friendship Festival that was held on Saturday. Mr. John Turner, whose inspiration and leadership led to the Friendship Festival and the World Friendship Pocket Park, was awarded the “Friend of the Community Award”. Susan Locklear, Summerville Main Street Director said: Friday evening during the World Friendship Pocket Park Reception Mr John Turner was awarded the “ Friend of the Community “ Award for his 25+ years of service to not only friendship to our community but also to the world. He was nominated by numerous folks. Quotes say- “ Mr Turner taught and touched many lives during his years as an art teacher and is now touching many lives with his book and travel’s promoting world peace and Summerville Georgia as the Friendship Capital of the World. He has modeled how to make a difference in his community and displayed his deep passion for highlighting Summerville, Chattooga County, and the life of Howard Finster to the world. He is constantly showing others how special our people and town really are.” Thank you Mr John Turner for you determination and dedication to making our community a special on the map! It Matters!!!

Bosom Buddies Breast Cancer Support Group August Meeting At AdventHealth Redmond Bosom Buddies, a community-wide breast cancer support group, will meet on Monday, Aug. 21 from 6 to 7 pm in the boardroom at AdventHealth Redmond. Bosom Buddies is open to the public for anyone affected by breast cancer. Each meeting is led by a different guest speaker, a light dinner is provided and a donated door prize is given. The meeting will be led by Paige Godwin, RN. Bosom Buddies is a free support group, but please RSVP by Friday, August 11 if you plan to attend. For more information or to RSVP, please text or leave a message at 706-506-3554.

Menlo Council Meeting Postponed Until August 8th The Menlo City Council meeting that was scheduled for Tuesday, August 1, 2023 had been postponed. According to Menlo City Clerk Jill Neal, the council meeting will be held on Tuesday, August 8, 2023 at 6 PM. The public is invited to attend.

Arrest Report - Monday - July 31, 2023 Here is the latest arrest report from the Chattooga County Sheriff’s Office for Monday, July 31, 2023:

Chattooga Ranks Fifth In Poor Bridges In Georgia Earlier this year, WZQZ News reported that Chattooga County ranks fifth-worse in the state when it comes to the county’s bridges. Bridges are ranked on a scale-system that takes in several factors about the bridge’s components. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) uses a Good-Fair-Poor bridge condition measure. A bridge earns a “Good” rating if the lowest rating of its key components is 7 or above. A “Fair” rating for 5 or 6. And a “Poor” if it falls at 4 or below. Notably, the definition of “structurally deficient” bridges has evolved. It now encompasses any component of a bridge in poor or worse condition. Georgia has it’s share of poor bridges, but the FHWA says that one in three bridges in the United States is in need of repair – highlighting the need for infrastructure spending across the country. Chattooga County has a number of bridges that are listed as “structurally deficient” by the Georgia Department of Transportation. There are 114 bridges in the county and of those, there are 23 in need of repair or corrective action. One bridge, over Selman Creek near the Gore Fire Hall, has been closed. Here is a map of the bridges in Chattooga County that need corrective action, according to state officials:

Trion Fire Department Installs Fire Alarms The Trion Fire Department has been busy over the past few days installing free fire alarms for area residents. A large shipment of the alarms came in last week to the fire department and they posted on social media saying “If you signed up to receive free smoke alarms at community day or you’re in need of smoke alarms, please stop by our station as soon as possible. You can also reach out to us and we can deliver them to you. Smoke alarms were purchased with 3rd Annual Community day funds and are free to anyone and everyone. Smoke alarms save lives! No better way to give back to our community that we proudly serve”. Fire alarms save lives. In almost all of the fire fatalities reported in Chattooga County over the past several years, the absence of working fire alarms was noted. If you don’t have fire alarms in your home and need help getting them or installing them, contact your local Chattooga County fire department.

Town of Trion Purchases New Mower The Trion Town Council met on Thursday of last week and one of the items on the agenda was the purchase of a new commercial mower for the Trion Recreation Department. The new Hustler Commercial zero-turn mower was purchased from Equipment Outlet. Also on the agenda last week, the town council heard from Trion Recreation Department Director Chris Mosely about plans for the Rec Center to host outdoor movie nights. The council also set qualifying dates for the town’s upcoming municipal elections. The offices to be filled are: City Council Seat 4, City Council Seat 5, School Board Seat 4, and School Board Seat 5. Each of the offices have a four (4) year term. The qualifying dates will be Wednesday, August 23, 2023 through Friday, August 25, 2023 between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. The office will be closed for qualifying between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. for lunch. The qualifying fees for Council Seats and School Board Seats are $36.00.

Self-Inflicted Gunshot Wound Fatality In Summerville Several people reached out to WZQZ News over the weekend concerning police presence and emergency responders at a Bittings Avenue address in Summerville on Saturday. According to Summerville Police Chief Harold Tucker, there was what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot fatality at the residence. Tucker told WZQZ News on Sunday that the body of the victim has been sent to the GBI Crime Lab for an autopsy.