Sometime before he died -- gunned down by St. Paul police officers after he allegedly confronted them with a handgun -- Robert J. Jeske is believed to have logged onto a MySpace page for the final time.

"I love you all .......... goodbye ..... I am sorry ....." states the note entered under the name Bob Hope.

The author's mood? "Done," the MySpace entry reads.

Although authorities have yet to make a final determination, police spokesman Peter Panos said Tuesday that the MySpace page and another note apparently left by Jeske on his computer are leading investigators to believe that his death Monday was a case of officer-assisted suicide.

Jeske, 34, of St. Paul, was shot and killed by police after he allegedly refused to put down his gun, and instead raised it, Panos said, while in an alley in the 1500 block of E. Iowa Avenue on the city's East Side.

A police dog named Boomer was shot in the muzzle during the altercation.

Jeske's family and friends were shocked when they learned about the confrontation with police, the shooting and the MySpace goodbye.

Most knew Jeske as a talented musician who was nonviolent, "easygoing" and "happy-go-lucky."

"This just wasn't him," said his younger sister, Sarah Rudolph of St. Paul. "None of this makes any sense. I don't think he ever handled a gun in his life. Maybe a BB gun when he was little. ... He was one of the most harmless people ever."

The gun Jeske had belonged to a friend, Rudolph said.

Jeske, who grew up in Minneapolis, was destined to be a musician. Long before he played guitars borrowed from friends, he was playing on pots and pans, Rudolph said.

By age 13, he had his own acoustic guitar and was teaching himself to play. He loved hard rock and heavy metal but would play everything from oldies to ad jingles, she said.

Jeske was the guy in the band who kept everyone smiling, said Chris South, who played with him in their former band, Downside of Truth. "He was the one who kept me from losing my cool," South said.