The knife that a woman used to cut police officers' hands before they shot and killed her in a Brooklyn apartment on Wednesday. They were investigating a complaint of a gas odor.

A knife-wielding woman was shot to death by police after she repeatedly stabbed a cop's hands in Brooklyn Wednesday, cops said.

Ginette Denize, 48, was killed during a confrontation at her Remsen Ave. apartment in Canarsie that was prompted by her landlord's call to 911 to report the smell of gas, sources said.

Advertisement

Minutes later, emergency crews broke down the locked door to Denize's basement unit to find the stove's four burners emitting gas and Denize armed with a 12-inch kitchen knife.

Officer Paul O'Connor, 29, used a baton to fend off Denize, who hadn't paid rent on the railroad flat for five months and had been taken to court for eviction proceedings.

Advertisement

But O'Connor tripped and fell in the kitchen and was stabbed on both hands by Denize.

"I saw a woman with a large knife charging at a police officer," one of the firefighters told NYPD Internal Affairs. "She was screaming. The officer fell down, and she really went to work on him."

Police Officers Mark Hunter, 23, and Eric Jackson, 28, fired a total of five rounds at Denize, striking her twice in the chest. Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said the shooting appears to fall within NYPD guidelines.

Kelly said O'Connor had serious injuries to tendons in his right hand and was being treated at Kings County Hospital.

Patricia Braddy, 57, who lives upstairs from Denize, said the usually reclusive Haitian immigrant threatened to turn on the gas and blow up the house last week.

"And last Sunday, she was pounding on our door and ringing the bell at 3 o'clock, 4 o'clock in the morning," Braddy said. "She did things that weren't normal."

Wednesday's violence was the culmination of a long dispute between the landlord, Serge Gelin, and Denize, who had lived there only nine months, sources said.

Six 911 calls had been made from the address since March 31, Kelly said, including one prompted by Denize's encounter with Braddy. Police said Denize was not arrested because it was her word against the landlord's.

Advertisement

Gelin began eviction proceedings against Denize last month, records show.

agendar@nydailynews.com