SANTA ANA – The city of Santa Ana has settled a lawsuit alleging excessive force by one of its police officers for fatally shooting an Irvine woman who had led police on a high-speed chase with her baby in the back seat of her car.

A federal judge declared a mistrial in July after a jury in the suit brought by the family of Susie Young Kim, 37, sought millions in damages from the city over allegations that the shooting was a violation of her civil rights under federal and state law.

Kim died at the scene of the shooting, which occurred in the early hours of April 10, 2009, near 17th Street and Grand Avenue in Santa Ana, after a 30-minute chase that began in Buena Park.

The settlement amount is “substantial,” said Dale Galipo, the attorney for Kim’s parents and her daughter, Angelica Kim Contreras, now 4, who was not injured in the incident.

The amount of the settlement is not being disclosed because the city wants to keep it confidential and the family agreed, Galipo said.

“I feel good about it,” said Galipo of the settlement amount, which was agreed to in September. “I think it was a fair resolution for everyone concerned.”

“We looked at it as a big victory because of the amount of the settlement and because we felt that in the first jury trial, having it 6-2 in our favor was a victory for us” that led to the settlement, Galipo said.

At trial, jurors couldn’t agree on the first question before them: whether Santa Ana police officer Brandon Sontag’s use of force was excessive.

The panel was leaning 6-2 in favor of Kim’s family on that question, which Galipo said then boded well for a retrial.

The case merited a large settlement because of the way the jury was leaning, the judge’s statement that this was the saddest case he’d ever seen, and the sympathy engendered for the family and the child, Galipo said Tuesday.

“I don’t think this was your average police shooting case. It was different in some respects,” he said.

“At the end of the day, if we retried the case, I was going to ask for even more money and they ran the risk,” Galipo said. “They paid the amount of money they paid. If we went to trial again, we could get even more.”

Attorney Steven Rothans, whose Los Angeles firm represented Sontag and the city at the trial, could not immediately be reached for comment.

Jose Gonzalez, Santa Ana’s public information officer, said he would look into the city’s reason for keeping the settlement confidential and its justification for doing so. The Register will update this story once we hear back from the city.

The Orange County District Attorney’s Office investigated the shooting but did not file any criminal charges against the officer involved.

Rothans argued that Sontag acted appropriately after Kim, who had cocaine in her bloodstream and whose blood-alcohol level was found to be 0.18 percent – more than twice the legal limit of 0.08 – led police on the pursuit with speeds of 110 mph to 120 mph and created the situation that night.

Sontag testified at the trial he believed Kim was going to run him over.

Rothans urged jurors to judge the high-stress situation from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene, not with the benefit of 20-20 hindsight.

When Sontag approached Kim’s vehicle to order her out, he believed her car was inoperable, but then she “floored it” and the officer fired in self-defense, Rothans said.

The officer fired even as Kim’s car was passing him by, Galipo said. Two bullets went through the driver’s side of the vehicle and the third fatal shot shattered the rear window and struck Kim in the back, he said.

Kim’s daughter was not injured in the incident and it was disputed whether Sontag heard police transmissions about a child being in the vehicle.

Susie Kim’s parents and her daughter were named plaintiffs in the suit.

“They’re happy to put it behind them and particularly happy that we can provide for the child, which was the whole motivation for bringing the litigation,” Galipo said.

Contact the writer: 714-796-7956 or agalvin@ocregister.com