As investigators continue to piece together the chain of events that led to the shooting death of a state Trooper near Corning early Monday morning, Steuben County's sheriff provided more details Tuesday about the deadly shooting.

In the meantime, calling the shooting death of New York State Trooper Nicholas Clark by Bradford school Principal Steven Kiley "a tragic incident," the district's superintendent pledged Tuesday to cooperate with the ongoing investigation.

Trooper Clark, from Troupsburg, was among the law enforcement responders to a 3:30 a.m. 911 call to 10041 Welch Road in the Town of Erwin, just south of the City of Corning.

The call was made by Kiley's estranged wife, who reported he was suicidal and possibly armed, according to state police.

Kiley was barricaded inside his house with a firearm, state police said.

Troopers called for backup, and the Steuben County Sheriff's Office responded, when crisis negotiators were unable to successfully talk Kiley into surrendering peacefully.

"We had two deputies on the scene, and one was on the perimeter with the trooper when he was shot," said Sheriff Jim Allard. "Our deputy was able to return fire, then dragged the trooper to a position of cover. The other deputy was in a different area of the perimeter.

"State police got the initial call, and they called for additional resources. Deputies responded, along with more state police," Allard said. "After shots were fired, the Corning Police Department also responded. One of the nice things about our area is everybody works together."

State police said at a Monday news conference that Kiley, 43, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, but Allard said that won't be conclusive until autopsy results are in.

Kiley had been principal of Bradford Central School for the last two years.

Bradford Superintendent of Schools John Marshall made a brief statement to reporters Tuesday, praising the slain trooper and promising support for students and others affected by the tragedy.

Trooper Clark:NY trooper death: Nicholas Clark's athletic legacy carried into police career

"I would like to offer our most sincere condolences to the family of Trooper Nicholas Clark. Trooper Clark was a hero, as are all the men and women who serve in law enforcement," Marshall said.

"As this is an ongoing police investigation, the district is not at liberty to release any more information," he said. "Please know we are cooperating fully with the New York State Police. To our students, staff, community and all parties impacted by this tragedy, please know we are here to support you through this process."

Catch up:New York State Trooper killed: Here is what we know about Nicholas Clark’s death

Previous coverage:New York State Trooper killed: Nicholas Clark shot by suicidal Steuben principal

How to help:New York State Troopers PBA seeks donations for slain trooper's family

Remembering the fallen:These Southern Tier law enforcement officers were killed in the line of duty

Marshall confirmed Kiley has been the school district's K-12 principal since July 2016. Before that, since 2012, he was director of pupil services.

Kiley is listed as having been employed by the Bradford Central School District since January 2006, according to public records available at nydatabases.com. His most recent salary was listed as $90,026.

Investigators were still at the scene of the shooting Tuesday, trying to piece together the chain of events that led to two deaths.

Welch Road, which branches off Spencer Hill Road just south of Spencer Crest Nature Center, is a dead end road surrounded by dense forest growth that's interrupted every so often by a few dozen upscale houses scattered along the lonely stretch.

The Kiley residence is a two-story house surrounded by a well-manicured lawn of about one acre. Children's toys can be seen in the yard, a stark contrast to the grim yellow crime scene tape that encompassed much of the property Tuesday.

A front door to the home appeared partially shattered and bullet holes were visible in the front of the garage — mute reminders of the horror that unfolded in the darkness of the previous day's predawn hours.

Investigators could be seen going in and out of the woods behind the home Tuesday.

Clark, of Troupsburg, graduated from the New York State Police Academy in 2015, and in August 2017, he transferred to the Bath barracks, New York State Police Troop E Commander Major Richard Allen said Monday.

Praise and condolences continue to pour in for Clark and his family following the announcement of his death at age 29.

"(Monday's) tragedy strikes especially close to not only my home but my heart," said U.S. Rep. Tom Reed, R-Corning. "Trooper Clark bravely put his life on the line to protect his community and should be recognized as a hero for his actions. As a fellow Alfred University graduate, I stand with his family and friends as they mourn."

State Assemblyman Phil Palmesano, R-Corning, said Clark died doing what he did every day — protecting his family, friends and community.

"His tragic passing is a stark reminder that law enforcement is a dangerous job requiring immense bravery, courage and selflessness," Palmesano said. "We stand shoulder to shoulder with our law enforcement community during this difficult time, and our thoughts and prayers are with the family, friends and soul of Trooper Nicholas Clark, who represented the best of us.”

Funeral services for Clark will take place this weekend, according to the state police website.

Calling hours will be from 1 to 6 p.m. Saturday in the James A. McLane Physical Education Center at Alfred University, 99 N. Main St. in Alfred.

A funeral service is scheduled for 11 a.m. Sunday at the same location.

It will take some time to accept the loss of another law enforcement officer, Allard said.

"It's a tragedy," he said. "It boggles the mind that someone would make that decision."

Follow @SGJeffMurray on Twitter.