Syracuse, NY -- A man was killed and a Syracuse police officer injured this evening during a shootout that started when two officers tried to pull the man out of a vehicle on South Salina Street.



The injured officer, identified by sources as 14-year veteran Richard Curran, was hit twice during the 7:30 p.m. shooting, one bullet striking him in the back. A second officer shot and killed the man after a brief foot chase on Walrath Road, near South Salina Street, said Syracuse Police Chief Gary Miguel.

A witness said at least a dozen shots were fired during the daylight shooting.

The shooter was identified by police as James Tyson, 33.

Police were near the other end of Ballantyne Road, at Valley Drive, investigating an unrelated 2:20 p.m. fatal stabbing in front of Johnson's auto repair shop, when the shooting happened at the busy intersection where Ballantyne crosses South Salina and turns into Walrath Road.

Miguel declined to comment on the fatal stabbing as he talked about the shooting Monday night. He said the events were unrelated.

Cop shot and man killed in South Side shootout

Fatal shootings involving city police



Nov. 18, 1982: Syracuse police Officer Roger Baker shot and killed Augustine Rodriguez during a shootout when police responded to a domestic dispute. That was the first time a Syracuse police officer had shot and killed someone in 10 years.

Aug. 1, 1999: Syracuse police Officer Carlos Romain shot and killed Johnteirs Taylor during a domestic dispute in the home of Taylor's girlfriend. Authorities said Taylor was lunging at two men with a hunting knife when he was shot in the back.

Nov. 30, 2000: Syracuse police officers Michael Yarema and John Ives fatally shot Luther Edwards Jr. on the West Side after they said he threatened them with a long sword.

June 30, 2001: Cuong Tran was shot by Syracuse Police Officer Fred Brough after he lunged at officers with a knife. Tran had killed his two of his sons, Randy, 5 and Danny, 6.

The second officer who killed the suspect was identified as Officer Edward Falkowski, an 11-year veteran, according to a source with knowledge of the shooting, who declined to be identified due to the ongoing investigation.

Miguel said the officers had pulled over Tyson's dark sedan in front of the Colonial Laundromat on South Salina Street.

"As they went to take him out of the vehicle, a struggle ensued," the chief said. "The suspect pulled a weapon, a handgun out, and shot one officer."

The officers chased Tyson on foot east down Walrath Road. They exchanged gunfire with the suspected shooter, and Tyson was killed by Falkowski. It was the fifth fatal shooting involving a city police officer since 1982, according to Post-Standard archives.

Curran was taken to University Hospital, with injuries that were considered non-life-threatening, Miguel said.

This wasn't the first time either officer had fired their service weapon on the job.

In 2004, Falkowski shot a 33-year-old woman once in the chest as she charged officers with a butcher knife, according to Post-Standard archives. He was cleared of any wrongdoing by an Onondaga County grand jury.

Curran shot a pit bull charging him and another officer in 2002. He fired two shots, the second killed the dog.