A suspected drunken driver fleeing from officers slammed head-on into another vehicle on state Route 76 Sunday night, killing a 27-year-old man.

Advertisement

The driver, identified as 23-year-old Silvero Morales Romero of Vista, had his leg amputated in the crash yet still tried to elude authorities by hopping away after rolling his truck down an embankment, CHP Officer Eric Newbury said.

A California Highway Patrol officer spotted Romero speeding south on Interstate 15 in a 2001 Ford Explorer and pulled him over at Rainbow Valley Boulevard just after 7 p.m., Newbury said.

Romero, who did not have a driver’s license, briefly stopped but took off again when the officer asked for his identification. He was driving around 100 mph and weaving in and out of lanes, Newbury said.

Romero exited at state Route 76, headed west and ran a red light at the intersection with Old Highway 395, Newbury said.

At that point, the officer who was pursuing him lost sight of the truck and backed off but continued to follow with his lights and sirens off, Newbury said.

Romero then crossed over the double yellow lines and collided head-on with a 1999 Toyota pickup. The driver, identified as Douglas Tarry of Moreno Valley in Riverside County, was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival.

Romero’s truck then crashed into a 2004 Ford F-350 being driven by a 50-year-old man from Barstow. He and his 43-year-old wife suffered minor injuries, Newbury said.

Romero’s truck rolled several times down an embankment until it came to a stop in a ditch.

Romero crawled out of the truck and hopped about 50 feet before he fell to the ground, Newbury said.

He was taken to a hospital and will be booked on several felony charges including manslaughter, hit and run, driving under the influence and evading arrest. Newbury said he did not know Romero’s immigration status.

State Route 76 was closed for several hours as authorities investigated. The roadway was reopened about 4 a.m.

Newbury said that in a pursuit it is up to the individual officer to decide whether to continue it.

Newbury said individual officers chasing motorists have the authority to determine whether it is safe to continue the pursuit.

In this case, the officer determined that the speeding driver was an danger to the public and he backed off with the hope that the driver would slow down. The collision happened seconds later, Newbury said.

Necole Cameron of El Segundo, who was one of Tarry’s best friends, said he was a singer and a guitar player who played in a band called Agrypnia.

He was attending college in Los Angeles, earning a degree in sound engineering and was just finishing his last semester, she said. Tarry was single and is survived by his parents and a younger sister, she said.