MILWAUKIE -- For two agonizingly long hours, Kelly D. Finley sat terrified that the agitated neighbor who pushed his way into her home Tuesday was going to shoot her and her two young sons.

Held at gunpoint, Finley followed the man's irrational orders, frantically phoning pharmacies and clinics to arrange delivery of the medications he demanded.But as it turned out, the only one to die was the gunman, Bradley Michael Snell, shot by a member of the Clackamas County Sheriff's Special Weapons and Tactical Team, which had surrounded the building during Finley's ordeal.

Her two boys, ages 7 and 8, were never harmed.

"Luckily, she had the presence of mind to put the kids in the bathroom," said Detective Jim Strovink, Clackamas County sheriff's spokesman. "If she hadn't done that, who knows what might have happened?"

Finley, a 37-year-old single mother, apparently had seen Snell around their duplex on Southeast 21st Avenue, where he liked to mow the lawn. But she had never spoken to him.

"We may never know what was going through his head," Strovink said.

On Wednesday, two of the county's special advocates were working with Finley and her sons.

Finley, who works for Premier Mortgage, declined to speak with reporters. An older family member also declined.

Meanwhile, the seven SWAT members who laid siege to the duplex were placed on administrative leave. Only one shot was fired, but the entire team was involved in wrestling Snell to the ground.

The shooting will be reviewed by a Clackamas County grand jury.

Snell was immediately rushed to OHSU Hospital, where he died. An autopsy determined the bullet had severed a large artery in his abdomen.

Why Snell took Finley and her sons hostage remains unclear.

Snell, 38, moved into the duplex in the early 1990s, said landlord Carol Latourette. Snell's mother, Mary Ann Backman, 65, moved in with him about six months ago.

Latourette said Snell apparently could not work, disabled by Crohn's disease, a chronic inflammation of the digestive tract that often includes debilitating diarrhea. Latourette said Snell regularly took prescription steroids to control the pain.

However, Latourette said, Snell recently stopped taking the steroids to help prepare for a surgical procedure.

It was not known whether the pain returned, what medication Snell was seeking or why he forced Finley to make the phone calls.

Latourette said Snell seemed like a gentle person and was interested in gardening. His rampage, Latourette said, was completely out of character. She was shocked to hear Snell had threatened to "pop" Finley's sons.

"It was like alien entered his body," Latourette said. "I never heard him talk like that."

Police became aware of the hostage situation shortly after 3 p.m. Tuesday, when clinics Finley had called began phoning 9-1-1. Shortly afterward, Finley's boyfriend alerted police that she had called to say an armed man had pushed his way into her home.

Strovink said a nurse told police that Snell gave her a 15-minute deadline to have security guards deliver the medications.

"He also said if he saw any police, he would kill the hostages," Strovink said.

At one point, a sheriff's negotiator connected with Snell by telephone but was met by more threats.

About 5 p.m., Snell went out the front door, clutching his handgun, and peered around from the entrance area. That's when a SWAT team member shot him, dropping him.

Despite fatal injuries, Snell continued to resist until he was overpowered and disarmed.

None of the SWAT team members -- or the hostages -- was harmed.

Dr. Seth Izenberg, a surgeon on staff at Legacy Emanuel Hospital and a SWAT team member, rode in the ambulance with Snell, trying to save his life. Izenberg is participating in the investigation and declined to speak to reporters.

Strovink said shooting Snell prevented him from going back inside, where he could have killed Finley and her sons.

"It's never an easy situation," Strovink said. "But by shooting Mr. Snell, they eliminated the threat to his hostages and others -- and that was the right thing to do. There's also no getting around that it's a tragedy."

-- Rick Bella; rickbella@news.oregonian.com