SANTA ANA – The grieving mother of a 22-year-old wanted parolee who was shot and killed by police a week ago said her son was scared of police because of earlier encounters.

Charlene Galarza, 42, of Anaheim, said her son, Joseph Anthony Galarza, was trying to get a job and was a “loving kid.”

Galarza was a fugitive wanted on suspicion of possession of a firearm by a felon with a criminal street gang enhancement, court records show.

Charlene Galarza said her son was afraid of police because of previous brushes with the law; one of which left him suffering from a broken arm and dog bites.

Three years ago, when Galarza was 19, he was bitten by a police dog and arrested after a seven-hour standoff with police. The incident began when police tried to arrest Galarza on an outstanding no-bail juvenile warrant for contempt of court. He hit an officer, fled and barricaded himself in a stranger’s home.

Galarza was eventually charged with vandalism, resisting arrest and assaulting an officer, court records show.

Charlene Galarza has two other sons – Damien Galarza, 21, and Hugo Galarza, 24. Damien Galarza was arrested in January 2008 in connection with the shooting death of 18-year-old Juan Orajel.

Damien Galarza was charged with murder and remains behind bars. Another man and a juvenile were also arrested in connection with Orajel’s killing.

Charlene Galarza has also had several brushes with the law, ranging from drug possession to unlawfully obtaining welfare aid to traffic violations.

An autopsy was performed on Galarza, but his body remains at the coroner’s office.

Charlene declined to comment on her family’s criminal history.

“I haven’t seen my son at all. I want to be able to see him one more time,” she said, fighting back tears.

Galarza said she learned her son had been shot and killed Saturday morning after reading a news article online and calling police. A short time later, police showed up at her house and confirmed her son was dead.

“Who killed my son?” she asked, but police told her the incident was under investigation.

The gang unit located Galarza on Friday evening, using intelligence they had gathered on him.

Yajaira Nunez, who had been dating Galarza for a month, picked him up from a friend’s house. They were headed to the Irvine Spectrum when police pulled the Charger over around 6:11 p.m. Friday as the car was traveling on Main Street, approaching MacArthur Boulevard.

Nunez said she stopped the car in the 100 block of West Columbine Avenue and that’s when Galarza opened the door and took off. An officer, who has not been identified, fired his weapon.

http://c.brightcove.com/services/viewer/federated_f9/6936102001?isVid=1&publisherID=987209017

Contact the writer: 714-704-3709 or desalazar@ocregister.com