A heavily armed Wisconsin man who threatened a childhood friend in Ringwood over the weekend, then was shot after a three-hour standoff with 40 police officers, died Monday morning.

Robert J. Hejsak, 33, had been taken to Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge for treatment of multiple gunshot wounds, a hospital spokeswoman said.

Advertisement

No one else was wounded during the standoff in the 5300 block of Barnard Mill Road in Ringwood, which is about a mile north of McHenry.

The incident began about 6 p.m. Sunday when Hejsak, armed with a shotgun, five handguns and numerous rounds of ammunition, appeared at the home of his longtime friend John Bebis, McHenry County sheriff's police said.

Advertisement

Bebis said it had been several months since he had seen Hejsak, a Spring Grove native who had moved to near La Crosse, Wis. Hejsak said he wanted to settle a long-standing disagreement between the two and would not calm down, according to Bebis.

"He said: `No, I came here to finish something, I'm going to finish it. I'm going to wait for them to take me out,"' Bebis said.

Sheriff Keith Nygren said Hejsak exchanged gunfire with police early in the standoff, then fired several times over the next three hours.

Using a megaphone, officers tried to talk Hejsak out from behind a dirt embankment near a barn near Bebis' home, police said.

Just past 9 p.m., police said, Hejsak raised his hands, stood and stepped out into police floodlights. Officers told him to drop a handgun he had in his waistband, Nygren said.

Instead, Hejsak fired about eight shots toward 20 tactical team officers crouched behind cars about 55 yards away, Nygren said. They shot back, and Hejsak fell.

But Hejsak got on one knee and fired about seven more shots, the sheriff said. Officers shot back, striking him again. When paramedics got to him, Nygren said, Hejsak was still conscious.

"The offender left us no choice," the sheriff said.

Advertisement

The Cook County medical examiner's office was scheduled to perform an autopsy Tuesday.

The Illinois State Police are investigating the shooting, routine for incidents involving police officers. Nygren said he believes the officers acted properly.

"I was there and I was proud of the way all the officers responded. It was a measured response," he said.

Bebis said he had no idea why Hejsak showed up.

"He came to my house out of the blue," Bebis said.

Although they and their families had once been close, Bebis said, the two men had a falling-out over their different lifestyles. Bebis said he often spends his free time with his wife and three children. Hejsak was married, but the couple had no children, Bebis said.

Advertisement

Hejsak grew resentful that Bebis was not spending more time with him, his friend said.

"He tried to prove himself to me because I wasn't associating with him anymore," Bebis said.

Hejsak, a former machinist, had been unemployed since the mid-1990s, his mother said, when he received extensive neck and spine injuries in a hit-and-run car accident.

Those injuries kept her son in and out of hospitals and taking debilitating painkillers, said Ann Hejsak, who lives in Spring Grove. That left him depressed and struggling with growing medical bills, she said.

In 1999 Hejsak was convicted of punching his sister, according to McHenry County criminal records. He had to pay fines and other costs in the case.

When Hejsak showed up Sunday, he said he wanted to finish the running dispute the men had, Bebis said.

Advertisement

Bebis said Hejsak pointed the shotgun at him, but Bebis pushed it away.

"I wasn't too scared," he said. " I was just mad he came to the house and was acting like an idiot."

Bebis said he tried to calm Hejsak and eventually got him away from the house, where his wife called police, and onto the lawn. Bebis said he tried to persuade Hejsak to drop his weapons and go home, but Hejsak refused.

When the first squad car arrived, -- Hejsak readied his two handguns, Bebis said.

"He said, `I'm not going to give them a small fight,"' Bebis said.