A Woodland man, allegedly brandishing a handgun, was shot and killed by Woodland police early Friday morning after he apparently took a hostage.

The Yolo County Sheriff”s Office identified the man as Brandon Lee Macias Jimenez, 26.

As of late Friday afternoon, details on the shooting were still being put together, but police reported around 9:40 a.m. that the incident began at 1:56 a.m. at the Quik Stop Market, 1400 E. Main St. Police responded to the scene but the suspect had fled the area on foot while allegedly holding a woman hostage.

A search of the area was conducted by responding officers, who found the unidentified adult matching the description of Jimenez and a woman, on Thomas Street at the intersection of Echo Place.

Police officials reported officers attempted to talk with the suspect but the man held a gun to the woman”s head and refused to release her, police reported.

An officer shot Jimenez to protect the hostage.

The suspect was declared dead at the scene by medical personnel at 2:14 a.m.

Neither the hostage nor the officers were injured during the incident. Neither had been identified by police.

The investigation continued at the scene until mid-afternoon when traffic was reopened on Thomas Street between Collette and Colfax, which is about two blocks south of East Main Street. The area had been shut down earlier with only local residents allowed in or out under police supervision.

Shortly after the shooting, Woodland Fire crews and an ambulance crew were dispatched to the scene as was a helicopter. However, all were released from the scene around 2:14 a.m., which was when officials reported the time of death occurred.

As is typical in any officer-involved shooting, an outside agency will be brought in to conduct an investigation, in this case the California Highway Patrol.

There was reportedly an earlier “shooting” on Oak Avenue late Thursday night, police were able to confirm. However, the specifics of that incident were not immediately made known or whether it was related to the early Friday morning officer-involved shooting.

Woodland”s last shooting occurred on April 27 this year, in a murder-suicide situation at 294 Riverside Drive.

The last officer-involved shooting within city limits was with Yolo County Sheriff”s deputies. On April 30, 2009 Luis Gutierrez, 26, was walking on the East Gum Avenue and Highway 113 overpass when he was stopped by three plainclothes deputies, all from the county”s anti-gang task force.

Gutierrez ran and — according to deputy testimony — drew a knife and slashed when one of the deputies caught up to him.

All three deputies said they thought they were in danger, and as Gutierrez turned away, two of them fired their guns, striking Gutierrez and killing him.

A federal court exonerated the deputies from any wrongdoing after Gutierrez”s parents filed a civil lawsuit.

Meanwhile, Thomas Street, the scene of Friday”s shooting, has a long history of crime.

Woodlander Melvin Crouch, then 37, murdered his landlord Andrew Keith Campos on Oct. 23, 2009. Autopsy reports reveal Campos was stabbed a total of 10 times.

According to WPD Detective Richard Wright”s testimony, once Crouch had determined Campos was dead he said “sorry,” smoked a cigarette and called 911.

During the trial, Crouch”s attorney David Muller said Campos was attempting to illegally evict Crouch and had posted an ad on Craigslist saying he had a “horrible tenant.”

Crouch agreed to a plea deal that will make him eligible for parole in about 25 years.

In 2010, gang member Ramiro Leon Jr., then 18, was sentenced from 55 years to life for his role in a September 2008 drive-by shooting at Campbell Park, 701 Thomas St. The mid-afternoon shooting was believed to have resulted from gang friction earlier that day on a school bus returning from Cache Creek High School.

Leon shot several times from a passenger seat of a car as it was passing the park. One young man was hit and seriously injured. Bullets also struck a car that was parked along the park, narrowly missing a young woman sitting in it.

Residents living around the park said at the time, it was a known area of gang activity.

Also in 2010, Woodland police responded to a stabbing in Campbell Park, 701 Thomas St. The victim, a Sacramento boy, 16, suffered several non-life threatening stab wounds to his torso and along his arms, according to officials.