LONG BEACH – Police shot and killed a man early Sunday after he allegedly ambushed officers and fired multiple rounds outside a Central Long Beach home, authorities said.

Police identified the man only as a male Long Beach resident.

Family and co-workers, however, have identified the man as James Tuggle, a 29-year-old sanitation worker for the City of Long Beach. Police said the man, armed with two handguns and a shotgun, fired at officers multiple times and shot through windows in two police cruisers before he was shot at about 5 a.m. on Cedar Avenue, just south of Anaheim Street.

“We’re very lucky that no officers were injured in this incident,” said Long Beach Police Cmdr. Laura Farinella.

The incident began at 2:30 a.m. with a call about a dispute between a man and a woman in 1100 block of Chestnut Avenue. Farinella said police spoke with a woman at the location and then left after they determined there was no crime.

But at 3:43 a.m., officers were called a second time to the location, where they talked with a woman inside the home for about an hour. As the two officers were leaving, police said, they were ambushed by a male suspect who fired multiple rounds at the officers, who fired back.

Farinella said the man ran and hid somewhere along 12th Street near Chestnut Avenue, but jumped out and opened fire on a second police cruiser as it traveled down 12th to assist the first officers.

The incident ended when an officer shot the man in the 1200 block of Chestnut Avenue. The man was pronounced dead at the scene. Farinella said police recovered two handguns and a shotgun at the scene.

The man’s body remained at the scene about nine hours later, for the coroner’s investigation.

Some of Tuggle’s co-workers were at the crime scene, some of them crying. Co-workers said that Tuggle, who worked about 10 years for the sanitation department was hard-working and well-liked.

Royzell White used to work routes with Tuggle.

“I can’t believe something like this would happen to him,” White said.

kelly.puente@presstelegram.com, (562) 499-1305