Authorities are investigating the death of a man who died early Friday morning in Newark while in custody after he allegedly attacked police officers who were trying to subdue him.

Officers responded to Morgan's Bar at 323 West Runyon St. shortly before 2 a.m. Friday morning for a report of a disorderly man inside, said Newark police Detective Todd McClendon. After the man had left the bar and was seen walking at Clinton Place and West Runyon Street, police approached the man, who then began to hit the police vehicles and yell obscenities.After the officers got out of the vehicles and tried to subdue him, the man kicked and punched the officers, McClendon said. During the scuffle, the man also bit one of the officers, the detective added.



The police eventually subdued him, took him into custody, and had emergency workers transport him to Beth Israel Medical Center, McClendon said. During the trip, the man went into cardiac arrest and died a short time later.



Autopsy results are pending, McClendon said. Two injured officers were also transported to University after the incident.



Police have not identified him, but relatives and Newark South Ward Councilman Oscar S. James II named him as Basire Farrell, 30, of Newark.



Relatives quesitoned police accounts and whether excessive force was used.

"I'm really like numb with disbelief," said Farrell's uncle, Racheim Farrell.

James said he had heard about the incident from residents.

"It's a horrifying account on what happened," said James, who plans to talk to Police Director Garry McCarthy about the incident on Monday. "I want to hear what they say."

McClendon said the incident is under investigation by the police's internal affairs department.

James, who has known Farrell since they were children, said he last talked to him the previous night at 8:30 p.m.

"His mental health wasn't the best," James said. "Personally he was dealing with some issues."



Both Farrell and James went to the local Boys and Girls club on Hawthorne Avenue, James said.

Relatives said Farrell lived with an aunt on Hedden Terrace, just off Clinton Street. Both of his parents are deceased.

Farrell was a high school dropout who had attended Newark Technical High School before transferring to Weequahic, according to family. He was unemployed, but did odd jobs in carpentry, painting and masonry.

"He was real crafty with his hands," said Racheim Farrell.