'Oh man, look at my car': Cop worried about his windshield after 'killing teen in drunk-driving case'

'No, no, no, no, no!' Richard Bolling cried when told 13-year-old he hit was dead



An off-duty police officer who allegedly hit and killed a teenager while driving drunk was initially worried about the damage to his car, according to tapes of him talking to himself in his squad car.



After Richard Bolling was stopped having apparently fled the scene of the accident in Chicago, he initially exclaimed: 'Look at my car. Oh man, look at my car.'



But when he was told that 13-year-old Trenton Booker had died, he howled, 'No, no, no, no, no!'



The recordings were played yesterday at his trial, where he denies aggravated DUI, reckless homicide and leaving the scene of a fatal accident.



Trial: Off-duty police officer Richard Bolling, left, is accused of killing 13-year-old Trenton Booker, right, while driving drunk



Bolling, 42, was driving home from a bar in May 2009 when he ran over Booker, who was cycling with a friend.



He was stopped by his police colleagues driving down the wrong side of the road a few blocks away from the scene and found to have an open bottle of beer in his car, according to police reports.



The audio recordings made by a microphone in the car and played at Bolling's trial show what was going through his mind after he was stopped.



'Oh Lord, Richard, what is wrong with you man?' he said to himself before expressing concern at the state of his car, whose windshield was cracked and spattered with blood.

He then jokingly pretended to worry about cops eating his fast food, saying: 'Don't you eat my White Castles up. Don't you do that - I'm hungry.'



But his tone suddenly changed when the officers who had arrested him told him that Booker was dead.



'Oh no! Please don't tell me that man,' he cried. 'Oh my God. No, no, no, no, no!'



Booker's parents walked out of court while the recordings of their son's alleged killer were being played.



Crash: Bolling allegedly ran over Booker's bike with his squad car in May 2009

Destruction: Booker's mangled bike after the accident in Chicago

The trial also heard testimony yesterday from Milton Kinnison, the rookie officer who arrested Bolling.



'My opinion is that he was under the influence of alcohol,' said Mr Kinnison - even though at the time he determined that Bolling was sober after he asked him to walk nine steps then pivot and turn.



He now says that the suspect walked ten steps, could not turn properly and had to use his arms for balance.



Bolling twice refused to take a breathalyser test, acording to Mr Kinnison, and when he did take a test four and a half hours after the accident he was just under the legal driving limit.



Prosecutors have hinted that Bolling was given special treatment after his arrest.



He was driven to a gas station and allowed to use the bathroom before taking a sobriety test, which Mr Kinnison confirmed yesterday was not normal procedure.



And a superior officer allegedly told Bolling he would 'try to help you out as much as possible'.

