Sacramento police - Sacramento police officer Tyson Butler, 35, has been with the department six years - three years in dispatch and three years as an officer.A Sacramento police officer was in stable condition Sunday night after being shot shortly before 5 p.m., police said.The man suspected of shooting him was pronounced dead at 9:40 p.m., having died from what appeared to be self-inflicted gunshot wounds, said Sacramento County Sheriff's Department spokesman Sgt. Tim Curran.At a late night news conference, Police Chief Rick Braziel said the injured officer is Tyson Butler, 35, who has been with the department six years - three years in dispatch and three years as an officer.Call The Bee's Laurel Rosenhall, (916) 321-1083.The incident started at a business park off 14th Avenue near Power Inn Road. Butler pulled over a driver in a white sedan, said Sacramento Police Department spokesman Officer Konrad Von Schoech, for what was described as a routine traffic stop. As Butler approached the vehicle, the suspect fired, hitting him twice - first in the arm and then the thigh.The suspect fled. Law enforcement gave chase, including police, sheriff's deputies and California Highway Patrol officers, Von Schoech said. They followed the white car to Kiefer Boulevard.As the suspect turned left onto Happy Lane - a small road adjacent to Mather Field - he crashed into a ditch, said Curran.Authorities told the man to get out of his car, Curran said. The driver did not respond. They shot pepper spray into the car, but the driver still did not respond, Curran said.When deputies approached the vehicle, they saw the man had head trauma and called paramedics, Curran said. He was taken to the hospital.Deputies recovered a handgun from the car.At press time, authorities had not released the identity of the suspect. They described him as a 19-year-old Latino male.Braziel said they don't know why the suspect shot Butler."We had limited contact with him in our system," Braziel said. "We have no idea why he decided he needed to shoot our officer today."Sacramento Mayor Kevin Johnson also appeared at the news conference and thanked officers for their service to the city."We as a city have to do everything we can to make sure these men and women have all the resources they need. It's not an easy job," Johnson said.California Officer Shooting Suspect DiesSACRAMENTO, Calif. --The suspect accused of shooting a Sacramento police officer was identified Monday as Jose Munoz, of Sacramento.Officer Tyson ButlerThe officer he allegedly shot, meanwhile, is in serious condition with what police describe as "extensive nerve and vascular damage" to his arm.Sacramento County's coroner released Munoz's after he died Sunday evening in an apparent suicide.Sacramento Police Chief Rick Braziel said Officer Tyson Butler pulled over a vehicle along the 3700 block of Business Drive at about 4:46 p.m.As Butler got out of his car, the 19-year-old driver pointed a handgun out of his window and shot, Braziel said.Butler was hit in his right arm, so he couldn't draw his weapon. Braziel said Butler was shot again, this time in the upper thigh, as he tried to get away.Police chased Munoz, who eventually crashed in Sacramento County at Kiefer Boulevard and Happy Lane.After a standoff, a Sacramento County SWAT team approached the car and found Munoz had a self-inflicted gunshot wound, Braziel said.Braziel said it's not clear why the suspect shot at Butler. He was suspected of marijuana possession on one occasion in the past, Braziel said, but the district attorney didn't prosecute the case.Post-Surgery, Officer In Serious ConditionButler, who was in surgery until early Monday morning, is listed in serious condition at UC Davis Medical Center.He received "extensive nerve and vascular damage to his right arm," the Sacramento Police Department said.Butler worked for three years as a dispatcher before becoming an officer; his third anniversary as a Sacramento police officer is Monday."We don't know what the long term effects of his injuries will be," a statement from the department said. "He has a long road to recovery ahead of him. We all wish him will and for a speedy recovery."