A Broomfield police officer was justified in using lethal force after responding on May 24 to a domestic violence call that turned deadly, according to a ruling issued Wednesday by the District Attorney’s Office for Broomfield and Adams counties.

The office’s Critical Investigation Team determined that Broomfield officer Clint Hess acted properly when he shot Howard Blair Kepler, 58, twice in the head.

Kepler was holding his wife, Leigh Landskroner, 49, at gunpoint in the lower-level bathroom of their home at 13005 Lowell Blvd., the historic Westlake Schoolhouse building. He was armed with a gun and a knife and had been drinking. The couple’s two daughters, ages 10 and 8, were home at the time. Landskroner’s mother, Florence, also was at the home.

Kepler fired multiple shots that hit Landskroner in the abdomen, arms and upper body, according to the report.

Police pushed open the wooden door with a battering ram after hearing the gunshots, when Kepler turned and fired the gun in the direction of officers. Hess then shot Kepler believing he or other officers could be shot, the report stated.

Landskroner was rushed to St. Anthony’s Central Hospital in Denver, where she died of her wounds.

Kepler was declared dead at the scene. Toxicology tests found alcohol and amphetamines in his system. His blood alcohol content was .264.

According to a timeline established by investigators, police arrived at the scene at 10:36 p.m., two minutes after Florence Landskroner called 911 and reported Kepler and Leigh Landskroner were arguing. A SWAT team hostage negotiator also was on the scene, but Kepler was uncooperative and would not allow Landskroner to speak to officers who were shouting through the door, which Kepler was blocking with his body, according to the report.

Shots were fired at 10:44 p.m., the report stated.

Kepler accused Landskroner of being “unfaithful,” according to testimony given by her mother.

Florence Landskroner also told investigators that Kepler was slapping Leigh Landskroner, and that Kepler had been out of the house for a couple of days because he had been drinking. Florence Landskroner said she heard her daughter say “you’re hurting me,” “I’m bleeding” and “you’re cutting me.”

Florence Landskroner said she tried to intervene, but her daughter told her to go. Florence Landskroner then called 911.

See what else the report revealed at BroomfieldEnterprise.com.