BOULDER — After reviewing eight hours of testimony and evidence, a coroner’s inquest jury Monday found law enforcement officials were not criminally liable in the May shooting death of a 46-year-old East Helena man, who was drunk, suicidal and brandishing a .45-caliber pistol.

Douglas Charles Morrison was shot and killed by two officers after he allegedly fired his weapon in the direction of a patrol car and approached them with gun in hand during a standoff outside his cabin about four miles northwest of Boulder. A friend had called 911 on the night of May 29 to report Morrison was suicidal. According to testimony, Morrison had first said he would shoot himself if police arrived at his cabin and said he’d “trick” the officers into shooting him.

Six of the seven jury members decided Morrison was not killed by criminal means. A majority vote was needed in the inquest, which was overseen by Butte-Silver Bow Coroner Lee LaBreche.

Morrison’s friend Jay Duncan testified he was concerned Morrison was talking about an ominous plan but wouldn’t elaborate. Duncan called 911 and then drove out to the cabin with his girlfriend, LueRonda Ball.

“He said he wasn’t going to be on this earth after tonight. He said this was his last night. Then he hung up,” Duncan said, adding he heard about seven shots from Morrison’s pistol in about 30 minutes while at the scene.

The state Division of Criminal Investigation assessed the shooting. Agent Lee Johnson testified that 21 casings from Morrison’s pistol were found at the scene.

Jefferson County Sheriff’s Deputy Tom Grimsrud, who fired one of the two fatal shots, said any attempts to negotiate with Morrison were unfruitful. Grimsrud testified that Ball, who spoke with her friend continuously throughout the incident, was certain Morrison would surrender to her but he couldn’t put her in harm’s way. Ball then told authorities that Morrison was driving down to the gate outside of the cabin.

“I was hoping he would have thought about what he was doing but that didn’t happen,” Grimsrud said.

“We need to be more in control of this. We’re not ready,” Grimsrud said of his reaction. “Honestly, I was afraid he’d drive up and we’d have a shootout right there.”

On the way down, Morrison high centered his truck. He then began walking toward where deputies and his friends were, shooting in various directions from time to time. At least one shot was fired near a deputy’s patrol car.

Montana Highway Patrol Trooper David Gleich suggested he and Grimsrud move down and get a visual of Morrison, who was now at the gate and firing another round. Grimsrud and Gleich took cover behind a large tree. They saw Morrison walking up the road about 50 feet away and Grimsrud announced his presence. Grimsrud testified he was trained to talk people down and he needed to make contact with Morrison.

“This is unfortunate for everyone involved, but I think the officers acted appropriately,” Johnson said.

Gleich and Grimsrud yelled for him to drop his weapon, and then tried different tactics like telling Morrison to think about his family or his pet. Morrison then approached to within 8 yards of the officers.

“He never said a word,” Gleich said, adding the Morrison was holding his pistol about level with his head. “He wanted us to know that he had his gun. At this point he was already too close.”

Grimsrud fired two shots from his rifle, one striking Morrison in the chest. Gleich shot once, hitting Morrison’s abdomen.

“It’s been difficult. In hindsight, I couldn’t do anything different,” Grimsrud said.

Gleich saw the gun drop out of Morrison’s hand and immediately ran over and kicked it away. Grimsrud and Gleich then started first aid. Morrison died at the scene.

“I do believe this was the only course of action we had,” Gleich said, adding officers are taught to use lethal force when a deadly weapon is involved.

“If we would not have shot Mr. Morrison when we shot him, I believe he would have walked right up to Tom and shot him right in the face. He wanted to end his life. He couldn’t do it. He wouldn’t do it and he forced us to,” Gleich added.

Angela Brandt: 447-4078 or angela.brandt@helenair.com