Maurice Johnson, 30, of Wentzville, was shot and killed by O’Fallon police Monday morning as they responded to a domestic disturbance call.

According to police, an official with Rock Creek Elementary School called police at 8:54 a.m. expressing concern for the well being of a female resident in the first block of Millcreek Parkway. O’Fallon Interim Police Chief William Seibert said the woman’s child attends the school.

Police said Johnson and the woman were estranged.

Seibert said six officers responded to the residence, which was locked. A neighbor, seeing the officers at the residence, volunteered to call the woman, who met police at the residence and gave them the keys to her home.

Police found no one at the residence. At the woman’s request, two officers stayed behind in separate bedrooms waiting for the suspect to return.

Police had a warrant out for Johnson for domestic violence within the last month, Seibert said.

When Johnson returned the officers informed him he was under arrest. Seibert said the suspect then reached for his waist, where he had a 40-caliber semi-automatic handgun. Police officers then shot him.

Seibert said it was not known whether police or Johnson fired first. Johnson’s body was removed from a porch area behind the back door at 1:30 p.m. Seibert said he did not know where in the house Johnson was shot.

"We think he was close by because as soon as the other (four) officers left, the suspect showed up almost immediately," Seibert said of the confrontation.

Both officers involved in the shooting were put on administrative leave.

Police were called several times in the last few weeks during domestic disputes, neighbor Scott Timme said.

Jim Roberson was taking a nap across the street Monday morning when his mother, Shirley, woke him after hearing a loud noise. She said she initially thought firecrackers were set off, because neighbors frequently shot off fireworks, but later realized it was gunshots because the sound was louder.

"It’s scary if the guy’s waving a gun around and could have shot around in a circle," Shirley Roberson said, expressing fear that a stray shot could have hurt neighbors.

Following the shooting, some 20 police vehicles, including those of O’Fallon police and St. Charles County sheriff’s deputies, arrived on the scene.

Seibert said the last incident involving a police shooting in O’Fallon occurred in October at St. John’s Mercy Health Care Center, where SWAT officers shot and killed a man who took his ex-girlfriend hostage and shot her. Prior to that, it had been 13 years since an O’Fallon police shooting, Seibert said.