In the hours before provoking a fatal confrontation with police last week, a 22-year-old Milwaukie man twice tried to kill himself and called his mother to say goodbye.

After hearing those and other details, a Clackamas County grand jury on Tuesday declined to indict two Milwaukie police officers in the shooting death of Jesse Aaron Weatherford. The grand jury finding, in effect, clears Sgt. Tom Broomfield and Officer Luke Strait of criminal wrongdoing.

Portland attorney Daniel C. Lorenz, who is representing the Weatherford family, declined to comment, saying he had not yet been provided with any information from the subsequent investigations.

After the grand jury announced the decision, Milwaukie Police Chief Robert Jordan provided more information about circumstances that led to Weatherford's death.

The deputies first used a less-than-lethal 40 mm sponge round on Weatherford, striking him in the foot, but failing to stop him from advancing toward them with a knife, Jordan said. When Weatherford ignored orders to stop or drop the knife, police shot him twice in the chest with a .45-caliber handgun.

Jordan said Broomfield and Strait also were carrying a "beanbag" shotgun, but did not get a chance to use it. He declined to say which officer fired the fatal rounds with his handgun.

The Oregon State Medical Examiner ruled Weatherford's death a suicide, noting that Weatherford had slit his wrists, then "precipitated" a confrontation with Broomfield and Strait while carrying a knife.

Weatherford, who lived with his mother at Northridge condos, 12600 S.E. Freeman Way, apparently tried to kill himself shortly before 2 p.m. June 2 by crashing his car into a tree off Oregon 99E near Southeast Tacoma Street in Portland.

"There were no skid marks," Jordan said. "It appeared that he went right into the tree."

At 4:20 p.m. the following day, Jordan said, Weatherford called his mother, Alice Kaye Weatherford, to say, "Mom, I've cut myself again. I've called police. Mom, I love you. And goodbye."

Four minutes later, Weatherford called 9-1-1, saying a bleeding man was in the condo complex parking lot, armed with a knife, Jordan said. When Broomfield and Strait arrived, they found Weatherford wearing just his underwear, blood seeping from his wrists.

Weatherford's mother called police after she got off work to tell them about her son's threat. "Of course, by that time, it was too late," Jordan said. "He was already dead."

Jordan said Broomfield, a 15-year veteran of the department and Strait, a 14-year veteran, will remain on administrative leave to give them time to decompress. He said he expected both to return to duty next week.

At the same time, the police department's shooting review board will examine whether department policy was followed and whether improvements can be suggested. That will be followed by a technical de-briefing, the first time Broomfield and Strait will be allowed to discuss the incident together, in the presence of other police.

"This is a tragedy," Jordan said. "That's the only way you can characterize it -- a tragedy."

-- Rick Bella: rickbella@news.oregonian.com