The man accused of killing a Northeast Washington mother of two died a violent death himself yesterday after apparently being spotted near the woman's funeral.

Allen L. Haggins, 38, was struck by police bullets and by a shot he fired himself in the 600 block of L Street SE, while services were being held a few blocks away for Goldean Hawkins, 26. He was accused of fatally stabbing her on a school playground May 31, D.C. police said.

"Justice has been served," Hawkins's mother said last night.

Haggins, who apparently shared an apartment with Hawkins, had been charged in a warrant in her death, D.C. police said yesterday. Officers had apparently been posted at Hawkins's funeral, which was scheduled for 11 a.m. at St. Matthews Baptist Church, on New Jersey Avenue between L and M streets SE.

About 11 a.m., members of the area's Regional Joint Fugitive Task force were in the 500 block of M Street SE, five blocks from the church, when they spotted Haggins, police said.

When Haggins saw the officers, he ran about a block to a parking lot at Sixth and L streets, where, police said, he drew a handgun.

Two officers fired their own weapons, striking Haggins, police said. An additional gunshot wound was apparently self-inflicted, they said.

He was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead.

Neighbors said Hawkins was killed on the playground of John Burroughs elementary school in the early hours of the morning, after calling for help. They held a vigil there for her.

A community resident said yesterday that it was apparent that police had been posted at the funeral. At the church service, he said he heard an officer say, in reference to the suspect: "They got him.''

A church member remembered the slain woman last night as "a fun-loving girl" who seemed to be "upbeat all the time" while active at St. Matthews, where she sang in the choir as a child.

Police disclosed no motive in the woman's slaying. But community residents said they considered the killing an act of domestic violence.

"I really believe the city needs to crack down more on domestic violence," said Clarence Cherry, head of the PTA at John Burroughs.

Staff writer Theola Labbé-Debose contributed to this report.