BROADWAY, N.C. — An off-duty Lee County sheriff's deputy is on paid administrative leave Thursday night after investigators say she fatally shot her estranged husband at their home in Broadway.

Harnett County deputies responded to the home of Michael and Angie Clark at 8 Bee Hive Lane at 10:22 p.m. Wednesday after a report of a shooting there.

Michael Clark, 44, died at the scene, deputies said.

NO TITLE PROVIDED

Michael Clark's father said that the couple had a rocky marriage which involved "physical abuse on both ends."

"We don’t know if it was a justified shooting or an unjustified shooting ... I hate my son is gone," said Jerome Clark.

According to court records, Angie Clark took out a domestic violence protective order against her husband in 2001 and last December. In the most recent case, she said her husband shot at her car. She also claimed he threatened to "kill all of you" before paying child support. In January, however, she voluntarily dismissed the case.

Jerome Clark said the two had been married about six years and had five children. They were separated and living separately, he added.

"He loved his kids very dearly. Whatever it took for him to provide for those kids, he did. He’d give his entire heart,” said Melinda Frederick, victim's sister.

"The investigation has indicated that the victim was shot by his wife, Angie Clark, age 40, of the same address," Harnett County authorities wrote in a news release Thursday. "There have been no charges filed in the case and no other information will be released at this time."

Lee County Sheriff Tracy Carter said he knew the couple had been separated, but was not aware of any serious problems.







"And she's done a good job. She gets along well with people in her shift and in the community, and we've been real pleased with her,” Carter said.

Michael Clark's body was sent to the Medical Examiner’s Office in Chapel Hill for an autopsy.

Investigators would not say whether the gun used in the shooting was the one Angie Clark carried on the job. She has been a deputy in Lee County for about two and a half years.