By Josh Ault bio|e-mail

FLORENCE, AL (WAFF) - One person died and a second was badly hurt when a car crashed on Spring Street in Florence.

The accident started when the vehicle ran a red light and three Florence police officers tried to pull the vehicle over. The pursuit started on Tennessee Street, and ended when the vehicle hit a tree.

A makeshift memorial was up on Spring Street on Monday where the police chase ended. Red roses have been placed at the tree where the vehicle hit head-on.

Jon Willingham, 27, died in the crash. His passenger, Bilhan Kiris, 23, was injured.

"His shoulder came out of socket," said Cem Demir, one of Kiris' friends, "It was broken. Collar bone was broken. His arm was broken, had to put pins in it."

Kiris has undergone several hours of surgery. He was flown to Huntsville after the accident, and is expected to be in the hospital for at least two weeks.

"He's doing okay emotionally," added Demir. "He's upset about it. I believe he still doesn't realize how serious his injures are."

Kiris is an international student at the University of North Alabama in Florence. He is from Turkey.

Willingham is the brother of Josh Willingham, who plays professional baseball with the Washington Nationals. His father also coached at Mars Hill Bible School.

"It's always tragic, but when you know the family it really compounds the feelings you have," said Florence Police Chief Rick Singleton.

Singleton said he knows the Willingham family and was at the hospital Saturday. He said the tragedy has effected everyone.

"It has a big impact on the officers as well," said Singleton. "Our officers were very traumatized by the event as well."

Singleton said it appears officers followed policy during the chase. The investigation has now been turned over to the Alabama State Troopers for review.

Willingham's funeral was held Sunday. Kiris' sister is flying in from Turkey Tuesday to be with her brother.

©2009 WAFF. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.