A former high school star athlete and a nightclub owner were killed early Saturday in unrelated law-enforcement-involved shootings, authorities said.

In the first, Adrian Barnes, 28, was shot five times inside his car by Bexar County sheriff's Deputy Wendall Morris, a four-year member of the force. Barnes allegedly aimed a loaded handgun at Morris after searching for - but not finding - his ex-girlfriend at a party at Morris' home.

About 22 miles away and 45 minutes later, San Antonio Police Officer Gilbert Guzman fatally shot Michael Galloway, the 46-year-old owner of the Midtown Club, moments after authorities said Galloway pointed a .380-caliber gun at them, and not long after he'd reportedly threatened suicide and refused to open the front door for relatives.

The shootings were at 2:45 a.m. and 3:25 a.m. Barnes was a Judson High School graduate who played for Texas A&M University-Commerce, graduating in 2006. Nightclub owner Galloway reportedly had admitted financial problems to his family.

According to sheriff's officials, Morris had returned home from work about midnight to join his family and friends having a party for his brother-in-law, who is deploying to Iraq.

Around 2:30 a.m., Barnes apparently walked into the house looking for his ex-girlfriend, who the Morris family said was no longer at the party.

Barnes drove away, authorities said, but returned a few minutes later, speeding in his car toward the Morris home. The car stopped and Barnes got out, authorities said, and made several verbal threats.

Morris was unable to calm him, officials said, and Barnes returned to his car and began to slowly drive away, while also reaching into his glove compartment.

Moments later, authorities said, Morris heard a snap and watched as Barnes chambered a round in a fully loaded semi-automatic weapon. He then aimed it at the deputy.

Morris fired, hitting Barnes five times. Authorities said witnesses heard Morris fire seven or eight shots. Barnes didn't fire his weapon.

Morris was placed on administrative duty, pending the outcome of an internal investigation. Although the San Antonio Police Department responded to the scene first and the incident occurred within the city limits, the Sheriff's Department has taken over the investigation since it involves a deputy.

Barnes had been in trouble with authorities once, when he was arrested in 1997 on a charge of interfering with the duties of a public servant. The charge was dismissed.

Jason Dixon, who played football with Barnes in college, was surprised to hear that he contemplated violence.

"It wasn't his personality," his former teammate said. "He was an energetic guy who would give you the shirt off his back. I can't even count on one hand the times I've seen him get upset."

Judson Football coach Jim Rackley said he was shocked to hear about the death of his former running back. Rackley said he had hoped Barnes would take up coaching football.

"It's a great loss," the coach said. "I never had any trouble with him on the football field and he was never in any trouble at school. He was a top-notch kid."

Even though, in his eyes, Barnes was a level-headed person, Rackley said he's planning to talk to his current players about the incident.

"Our kids have to know that they got to make the right decisions," he added. "This goes to show that all it takes is one bad, tragic decision and it can all end so quickly."

Barnes, a personal trainer at a Gold's Gym who in high school was elected to the 1st Team All District 25-5A, was pronounced dead at the scene in the 2000 block of Cedar Ridge on the far North Side near Henderson Pass.

Galloway was pronounced dead at the scene in the 5000 block of Coral Flounder on the Northeast Side. Police said the shooting took place after several officers arrived at the house in response to a disturbance call.

Relatives, who were standing outside, told officers that several gunshots were heard coming from inside the house. Detectives later collected two .380-caliber shell casings and a .380-caliber handgun and noted two bullet holes in the ceiling above Galloway's body.

According to a police report, the officers knocked down the front door and found Galloway in the living room "lying on the floor with a silver handgun in his right hand." The officers ordered him several times to drop the gun, the report said, but Galloway "responded with yelling profanities at the officers and not complying with orders to drop the gun."

The officers asked their supervisor for less-than-lethal weapons, including a Taser. But Guzman, a three-year member of the force, shot Galloway after he "pointed the gun in the direction of the officers." Galloway was struck in the chest and right shoulder, police said.

Galloway, 46, whose nightclub is on East Houston Street, was pronounced dead at 4:18 a.m.

Guzman was placed on administrative duty while an internal investigation continues.

A few hours after the shooting, Galloway's relatives gathered at the house, a large brick-facade home near Kirby. His sister, Fay Ballard, said Galloway called their mother early Saturday and said, "I can't take it anymore, I got too much on me."

Alarmed, Galloway's mother called another son, Billy Galloway, who lived in the same subdivision and asked him to check on his brother. Billy Galloway knocked on the door but Michael wouldn't let him in, Ballard said. So he called the police.

According to Ballard, when police arrived, Billy Galloway asked them to let him talk to his brother to calm him down. But police refused, she said.

"Why did they have to shoot him?" said Ron Ballard, Galloway's brother-in-law. "Why didn't they let his brother come in and talk to him? Those are questions we have that are unanswered."

Inside the home, family members pointed to the two bullet holes where they said Michael Galloway fired his gun into the ceiling.

According to his family, Galloway had past troubles with the law and was under a lot of stress - some of it financial. Public records detail a criminal history dating to the late 1980s, with numerous arrests on charges ranging from felony assaults to making terroristic threats.

But he would not have harmed himself or officers, they said.

"This is out of character for him to turn on himself," Fay Ballard said. "He was a good guy in the community."

Michael Galloway graduated from Healy-Murphy and joined the Army, where he was a boxer, Ballard said. He was divorced with two children - an 18-year-old son and 27-year-old daughter. About three years ago, Galloway opened the Midtown Club and was well known by patrons and community members.

Ballard said Galloway's cell phone had been inundated Saturday by people calling in disbelief over what occurred.

"People say, 'Just let it ring so I can listen to his voice'" on voicemail, Ballard said.