ANAHEIM – A man was killed and three others remain hospitalized after a high-speed police pursuit ended in a three-car pileup Monday night, police said today. One of the hospitalized men is in custody on suspicion of felony manslaughter.

At 7:29 p.m., police received a call about an assault and battery in the parking lot of an auto parts store at La Palma Avenue and Brookhurst Street, said Sgt. Tim Schmidt.

As two officers were driving to the location, a witness called 911 and said that the two men had left in a red pickup and parked across the street at The Home Depot parking lot, Schmidt said.

As police pulled up, the two men drove away in their red truck and police gave chase.

The men headed west on Crescent Avenue, reaching speeds of 80 to 100 mph, police said.

During the one-mile pursuit from Crescent Avenue and Valley Street to Crescent and Magnolia avenues, the patrol sergeant in the police car was broadcasting the vehicle description, license plate, the speeds, traffic as being light and was requesting an air unit, Schmidt said.



About one minute into the pursuit, the driver ran through a red light at Crescent and Magnolia avenues, colliding with a Toyota Camry and a gray Toyota truck that were traveling north on Magnolia, Sgt. Rick Martinez said.

The impact of the crash forced the red truck into a palm tree and the two other vehicles into the north side of an apartment complex.

A man in the gray truck, Orlando Botello, 49, of Chino Hills, died as a result of his injuries, Schmidt said.



The driver of the Camry is in critical condition.

The 22-year-old driver of the red pickup, Oscar Javier De La Torre Villalobos, 22, of Menifee, is in serious condition at UCI Medical Center in Orange. He is in custody on suspicion of felony manslaughter, felony DUI and felony evading and battery, Schmidt said.

Police are trying to determine what the involvement of the red pickup’s passenger might have been in the battery and what his role was in the pursuit, Schmidt said.

The initial investigation indicated that two men in a red pickup pulled up to a man in the parking lot who was having trouble with his motorcycle and proceeded to beat him up.

The victim suffered minor injuries during the assault and later told police he did not know the men or why they assaulted him.

“We are investigating the fact that it could have been some type of road rage incident,” Schmidt said.

Anyone with information or who witnessed the assault is asked to call the Anaheim Police Department at 714-765-1944.

http://c.brightcove.com/services/viewer/federated_f9/6936102001?isVid=1&publisherID=987209017

Contact the writer: 714-704-3709 or desalazar@ocregister.com