Burbank police and Cook County sheriffs detectives at the scene of the resolved standoff in the 8000 block of South Mansfield Avenue in Burbank. (David Pierini/Chicago Tribune)

What was originally described as a hostage situation in southwest suburban Burbank came to a violent end this morning in a suicide.

The gunman, 23-yeard-old Adolfo Corral, was rushed to Christ Hospital in Oak Lawn with a single gunshot wound to the head shortly after 7 a.m., Burbank Police Capt. Joe Ford said. Corral died at 10:30 a.m., according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

Advertisement

Police surrounded the home on the 8000 block of S. Mansfield St. at 10:29 p.m. Sunday, evacuating families from neighboring homes after learning that the gunman was inside with his unarmed cousin, Ford said.

Detectives negotiated through the night but at 7:11 a.m., they heard a single shot fired and the cousin came running from the house.

Advertisement

Officers working with the South Suburban Emergency Response Team rushed into the home and found the gunman in an upstairs bathroom with a single gunshot wound to his head, Ford said.

The gunman was "exhibiting signs of life", he added.

"At this time it appears that the relative of the armed subject remained in the residence of his own accord in an attempt to keep the armed subject calm and in an attempt to prevent the subject from harming himself," Ford said.

As a precautionary measure, nearby Liberty Junior High School was closed for the day and the gymnasium was used for residents displaced during the incident.

Neighbors said they heard three popping sounds coming from the house and soon after authorities were carrying out a young man -- possibly in his late teens -- on a stretcher with what looked like a shoulder injury.

The house was still cordoned off and police were still in the neighborhood at 9:30 a.m.

Joann Piersanti, who lives across the street from the small ranch-style home, said the family has lived there about two years.

She said she didn't know them well but, "they were very friendly. They stayed pretty much to themselves. I hope no one was hurt seriously," she said.

Advertisement

Around 18 families were evacuated, she said.

Wally Mozerka, who lives next door to the house, said police armed with machine guns showed up at their house about 10:30 p.m. and told them they had to leave immediately.

Piersanti said Liberty Junior was scheduled to be open today, its last day, and students were expected to be there about an hour, but it was canceled.

-- Carmen Greco and Kim Janssen