SHARE

By Dylan Darling

SACRAMENTO - A pair of south San Francisco Bay area men were charged Friday with shooting at law enforcement officers in a gunfight last week near Little Valley that left two Lassen County deputies wounded and a suspected marijuana grower dead.

Jose Alfredo Zepeda, 19, of East Palo Alto and Clemente Ferrias Arroyo, 62, of Morgan Hill were charged by the U.S. Attorney's office in Sacramento at a hearing there with shooting at law enforcement officers during a drug crime and growing more than 1,000 marijuana plants, said Lauren Horwood, office spokeswoman.

Officers with the Bureau of Land Management, Lassen County Sheriff's Office and the Susanville Police Department were investigating a large outdoor marijuana garden on June 16 near Little Valley - just across the Lassen County line east of Burney - when they encountered Zepeda, Arroyo and Juan Carlos Herrera-Chavez, Horwood said. The garden was on land managed by the BLM.

Herrera-Chavez started shooting at the officers with an AK-47 assault rifle, wounding Sgt. Dave Martin and deputy David Woginrich. In the ensuing gunbattle, officers killed Herrera-Chavez. A helicopter flew Martin to Mercy Medical Center in Redding while Woginrich was treated for his minor wound in the field.

Both the Lassen deputies are expected to survive their wounds, Horwood said.

Officers arrested Zepeda and Arroyo after the gunbattle, Horwood said.

In all, law enforcement agencies arrested six men on suspicion of conspiracy and attempted murder the day of the shooting, officer John Mineau of the Lassen County Sheriff's Office said the day after the incident. The office has yet to release the names of those arrested, so it is unclear whether Zepeda and Arroyo were among them.

The Record Searchlight has filed a California Public Records Act request with the Sheriff's Office for the release of the names.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation, BLM, Lassen County Sheriff's Office and the Susanville Police Department investigated the case, Horwood said.

If convicted, Zepeda and Arroyo could face life in prison and $4 million in fines, Horwood said.

Reporter Dylan Darling can be reached at 225-8266 or ddarling@redding.com.