HIDDEN MASSAGE: Sheila Lowe has spent years trying to come to terms with her daughter's murder [SPLASH NEWS]

Sheila Lowe will never forget what she was doing on the morning of Saturday, February 19, 2000. She was packing a suitcase to go on a business conference when her phone rang. “I didn’t recognise the caller’s voice or name and I was shocked when he asked if he could speak to Ken. Ken was my ex-husband and we had been divorced for almost two decades so I couldn’t understand why there would be a call for him on my phone.”



Then the man asked whether Sheila knew Jennifer Lowe. “I said yes,” she recalls. “I told him she was my daughter. Then he simply said that he was sorry but Jennifer had been murdered.” Completely shell-shocked, Sheila found herself immediately asking: “Was it Tom?” She already knew the answer. Tom Schnaible had been 27-year-old Jennifer’s boyfriend for almost a year. He was a burly 34-year-old special agent for the Department of Homeland Security.



“Jennifer believed he would protect her,” says Sheila. “Instead he shot her eight times.”



Jennifer had been in unstable and at times abusive relationships since she was a teenager. Sheila believes this may have been caused by witnessing her own parents’ unhappy marriage while she was growing up.



“My marriage to her father was not a happy one and I think subconsciously you recreate what you know and that’s what Jennifer did,” says Sheila, 64.



Her relationship with Tom was not to Sheila’s knowledge physically abusive although the couple fought constantly.



“He would shout at her all night and accuse her of lying about her whereabouts, claiming she was cheating with other men and digging through her handbag to look for evidence,” Sheila says.



Jennifer herself could be unpredictable which Sheila believes could have been caused by an accident when she was a baby. “She fell from her cot when she was a year old and her behaviour changed,” she explains.



“She began having terrible tantrums on a daily basis. When she was 10 psychological tests indicated that her behaviour was typical of a certain type of head injury.”



As Jennifer grew up she was impulsive, disobedient and often out of control, playing truant from school, threatening to attack her older brothers Ben and Eric and frequently telling her mother that she hated her.

READING BETWEEN THE LINES: A sample of boyfriend Tom Schnaible's handwriting [PH]

But two years before her death her behaviour had calmed down and she became closer to her mother. “Jen and I finally became friends when she was 25 but she still had impulsive, uncontrollable qualities,” says Sheila.



Sheila is a mystery novelist and handwriting analyst so when Jennifer got together with Tom she showed her mum a sample of Tom’s writing to see what she thought.



“My heart sank. I saw in his handwriting that he was a very controlling person,” says Sheila.



“What was of greater concern, though, was the potential for violent, explosive behaviour. Tall upper loops often indicate an authoritarian person and the light pressure of his writing was an indication of repressed anger. All these things were red flags for danger.”



In her job Sheila has been called upon to testify in numerous forgery and murder trials so she is trained to spot negative traits.



“I couldn’t look at his writing and say he was a killer but certain unpleasant characteristics were present,” she explains.



“The way you respond to your experiences manifests in your handwriting and nobody writes in exactly the same way. It’s like fingerprints, everyone is different so it can say a lot about how you are socially.”



Tom moved in with Jennifer after a few weeks but it didn’t stop the frequent arguments. Then one day he held a gun to Jennifer’s head when she tried to leave him.



“And yet she went back to him,” says Sheila, who is originally from London but moved to near Los Angeles as a teenager.



Several weeks after that incident Sheila was at a restaurant when she received a call from Jennifer.



“She sounded in good spirits and was talking about coming to visit. I told her I’d call her the next day,” Sheila recalls.



That was the last time Sheila spoke to her for in the early hours of the next morning Tom shot Jennifer dead.



“Her neighbour Cory witnessed the whole thing,” says Sheila. “Jennifer phoned the police and ran to Cory’s flat for safety. He saw marks around her neck where Tom tried to strangle her.

“Cory begged her to stay inside his apartment until the police arrived but after a few minutes Jen calmed down and said she was going back upstairs to make sure Tom didn’t hurt her cats.



“She left and everything was quiet for a little while. Thirty minutes after her 911 call the police had still not arrived. Then Cory heard voices outside again and looked out the window.



“Tom was at the top of the stairs and Jen started running towards Cory’s apartment. He followed her down the steps and opened fire, killing her instantly.



“He walked to his car and started to drive away just as the police arrived, minutes too late. Tom got out of his car and went back to her body. He knelt down and kissed her. Then he put the gun in his mouth and pulled the trigger.



“In a way I’m glad he took his life. I know that my sons would have gone after him had he not and then they would have ended up in jail.”



In the 14 years since the tragedy Sheila has learned a lot through her grief. “I like to think Jen would be settled with children if she were still alive. She wanted to have a baby and I think it would have sorted her out, having someone else to live and care for.”



Sheila believes Jennifer has tried to contact her from beyond the grave. “I believe people who die in a physical sense are still with us spiritually,” she says.



“Jen made contact many times after she died. An empty room would suddenly smell of her perfume or a radio would switch on by itself. I knew it was her.”



She adds: “I want to appeal to men and women who are being abused to get out now. Don’t expect it to get better, it only gets worse.” What She Saw by Sheila Lowe is available as an eBook for £2.69 on amazon.co.uk. For more details see sheilalowe.com

SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. More info

__BREAK1RIGHT____RELATEDPOSTS__