Without commenting on the issue of justification, this headline seems to be missing something:

MAN DIES AFTER ATTEMPTING TO STRIKE PEDESTRIANS

Date/Time: 06-19-2009 @ 11:54p.m.

Location: 2500 N. Mesa

Vehicle: 2008 Ford Mustang, 2 door, red

Suspect: Ruben Troncoso, 31 year of age, 3100 block of Rockwall (DECEASED)

Victim: Police Sergeant, 12 year veteran, Westside Regional Command Center

EL PASO, TEXAS – An El Paso Police officer is forced to discharge his weapon after a man attempts to strike pedestrians and earlier attempts to strike an officer. Just before midnight, an El Paso Police Sergeant assigned to the Westside Regional Command Center was forced to take immediate action in an attempt to save a crowd of pedestrians at Mesa and Cincinnati. The Police Sergeant had spotted 31-year old Ruben Troncoso driving erratically in the area of Executive and Mesa, and knew from police dispatch that he had been involved in a pursuit from the Mission Valley area. The Sergeant attempted to stop Troncoso, who was driving a red 2008 Ford Mustang. The Sergeant signaled and gave commands for Troncoso to stop and he refused. As Troncoso continued south on Mesa and was approaching Cincinnati he began to rev his engine and accelerate toward pedestrians. Witnesses recalled people having to scatter in an attempt to avoid being struck. At that moment, the Sergeant, forced to stop the dangerous actions of Troncoso fired his weapon at Troncoso striking him.

The vehicle veered left and struck a light pole at the 2500 block of N. Mesa. Troncoso died at the scene. The continuing investigation shows that Troncoso sped out from the area of 3100 block of Rockwall onto Pebble Hills. At that time a Pebble Hills Officer attempted to stop Troncoso for the traffic offense. Troncoso refused to stop and short pursuit initiated and was cancelled. Another Unit also spotted Troncoso and attempted to stop him and again refused. Enough information was obtained from the Units to identify the vehicle and attempt to locate the vehicle at the owner’s home. As one officer was in the area of the 3100 block of Beach Comber, Troncoso accelerated toward the officer and attempted to strike him with the vehicle. As the officers learned more about Troncoso they learned he had a violent history against Police and information was given to officers that he had rifles in his possession. As the officers continued searching for Troncoso, a call came in from the area of 7400 block of Phoenix advising that Troncoso was suicidal and did have weapons. Information was reported of Troncoso pointing a rifle at passing motorists at North Loop and Dale. Mission Valley Units located Troncoso and a pursuit ensued. This pursuit lead to Central El Paso, where officers deployed “Stop Sticks” and continued onto Executive in West El Paso. No other injuries were involved. As is standard in any officer involved shooting, an investigation by the Crimes Against Persons Unit, the District Attorney’s Office, the El Paso Police Department’s Shooting Review Team and Internal Affairs are all investigating the incident. Also as is standard, due to the traumatic impact on the officer of being involved in such an incident, the officer has been given Administrative Leave.