ANAHEIM – A man shot by an off-duty Anaheim police officer in an Angel Stadium parking lot a year ago Thursday has died.

Carlos Velazquez, 23, who was left partially paralyzed by a gunshot to the chin, died on Memorial Day.

Criminal charges against him were dismissed Friday. His brother, Jose Velazaquez, 26, of Ontario, who was shot in the shoulder, still faces a charge of felony assault on a police officer. He has pleaded not guilty.

The officer involved in the shooting has been cleared of any wrongdoing.

In a March 26 letter to Anaheim’s chief of police, the deputy district attorney in charge of the investigation wrote that officer Derek Trusk’s “actions were in self-defense, and reasonable and justified under the circumstances.”

The witness statements and police reports the District Attorney’s Office relied upon, which are now public record, tell a story of what happened the night of June 24, 2009.

ACCOUNT DRAWN FROM WITNESS STATEMENTS

On June 24, 2009, fans were clearing out of Angel Stadium after an 11-3 victory over the Colorado Rockies. While his wife and children went to get autographs, Trusk moved his white Honda Civic over by the players’ exit, where his family would be waiting.

After he parked, he heard a knock and opened his door.

“Get the (expletive) out of your car,” said the man outside, Trusk later told a District Attorney’s Office investigator.

“I think you have the wrong guy,” Trusk remembered saying.

“Get out of the car.”

Then the man’s girlfriend stepped in and began pushing him away from Trusk.

Trusk said he took advantage of the momentary obstruction to pull out his gun, lean back against his steering wheel and take aim at Carlos Velazquez.

“I’m a police officer. Get away from me. I have a gun. Get out of my face.” He said it several times, he told the investigator.

It was nearly 10:20 p.m., and the commotion started to attract the attention of departing fans. Police would later take statements from 25 witnesses. Their descriptions of events largely overlap; all of the details in the following account are found in the statements of at least two witnesses.

Esther Bustamante was pushing her boyfriend away from Trusk, as Trusk was telling him that he was under arrest. Velazquez ignored Trusk’s commands to get on the ground, but he finally listened to his girlfriend, and walked back to her pickup truck.

Trusk got on the phone with the Anaheim Police Department.

Inside the truck, Bustamante pleaded with Velazquez, screaming, trying to get him to let it go, but he pulled away from her and got back out.

Meanwhile, Velazquez’ brother Jose was returning from the restroom with their friend, Martin Gutierrez.

Carlos yelled something to his brother, and pointed at Trusk. Carlos and Jose started toward Trusk from different angles, while Bustamante screamed at them and Gutierrez told them not to do it.

As Carlos closed in on Trusk, he pulled off his black T-shirt and threw it to the ground. Jose followed. They charged “like two pit bulls,” in the words of one witness, as Trusk pointed his gun and told them to stay back.

Trusk backed up, but the brothers caught up to him, hitting him over the head with fists and an aluminum beer bottle. (One witness noticed that the bottle in Carlos’ hand was red; a dented red aluminum bottle was later found at the scene.)

Trusk turned and ran alongside his car, crouched over, covering his head with his left arm, and tucking the gun into his stomach.

As the fight moved between cars, some of the witnesses lost sight of the specifics, but Trusk told investigators what he remembered.

The brothers kept coming, catching him near the front of the car.

One of the bottle blows knocked him dizzy.

“For a split-second, everything went black, as though someone had shined a flashlight in his face,” his account to investigators reads. He “thought he was going to pass out and die, but he continued trying to shelter his head with his hands and to retreat.”

Someone was trying to grab his gun. He could hear his wife screaming.

As his attacker wrapped an arm around his upper body, Trusk lifted his gun up and fired twice.

Carlos put his hands to his neck, staggered forward, and fell face first.

Jose was standing to the side. “You shot me,” he said.

Bustamante ran over, screaming. “He was just drunk. You’re bigger than him. You didn’t have to shoot him in the neck.”

Trusk said he heard a man, possibly Jose, tell him, “You better not go anywhere. The police are coming.”

“Why did you guys do this,” Trusk asked. “I am the (expletive) police. I told you that. I told you that.”

AFTERMATH

In a brief conversation, attorney Luis Carillo said that the Velazquez family has already suffered enough, and that he hopes for leniency for Jose. He did not return several calls to discuss the case in more detail.

According to a court notation in the brothers’ case file, neither Velazquez brother has a criminal record.

Jose Velazquez told police that he had drunk five beers that night, and that his brother had drunk more than that, according to the police report.

Other than Trusk’s account of mistaken identity, there is no mention in the police reports of what the dispute was about.

At the time of the shooting, Carlos Velazquez was a Marine based at Camp Pendleton. He was left partially paralyzed, unable to use his right hand, his sister Maria Velazquez said. He had to eat through a tube for three months, and spent months afterward in physical therapy, she said.

He hadn’t shown any signs of deterioration before his death on Memorial Day, she said.

“My mom found him in his room,” she said. “He was just already dead.”

His cause of death is still under investigation by the San Bernardino County coroner’s office.

Two days after the shooting, Carlos Velazquez was lying in a hospital bed at UCI Medical Center, still unable to speak after undergoing several surgeries.

Det. David Watson of the Anaheim Police Department was sitting in the room guarding him. He later wrote in a report that he saw Velazquez “raise his left knee and he started moving it left to right and he was holding the fingers up on his left hand, moving them around. I heard him make a clicking noise with his mouth. I looked at his face and he was trying to say something to me.”

No sound came out, but Watson read his lips: “I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.”

Register staff writer Denisse Salazar contributed to this report.

Contact the writer: jcassidy@ocregister.com or 714-704-3782