A 43-year-old Ypsilanti Township man was killed by Washtenaw County sheriff deputies early Sunday morning after he was spotted leaving the scene of a house fire carrying a gun. The body of a woman was found inside the burning home.Early indications are that the woman was shot, Derrick Jackson, the sheriff department's director of community engagement, said. Foul play is suspected in her death.

According to a sheriff's department press release, county dispatchers received a call around 12:10 a.m., about a fire in the 1200 block of Pageant, off of Clark Road, in Ypsilanti Township.

The caller said the house was on fire and one male had been seen leaving the premises with a gun, according to a release from the department.

The caller also said they believed the suspect's mother was still in the house.

When sheriff deputies responded to the scene, they came across the suspect near the intersection of Wendell and Redleaf.

"The interaction resulted in an officer-involved shooting," the release said. Further details were unavailable Sunday morning.

Jackson said the police reports were in the process of being reviewed to put together exactly what happened at the corner - under a half-mile away from the house fire.

The suspect was transported to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

No deputies were injured. The names of the officers involved were not released.

Meanwhile, firefighters from Ypsilanti Township and Superior Township found a 66-year-old Ypsilanti Township resident dead inside the house.

The Michigan State Fire Marshal's Office was on the scene of Sunday morning, investigating the house fire.

A smell of smoke lingered in the air around the ranch-style house, which was taped off by yellow police tape strung along a chain link fence that surrounded the neatly-kept lawn.

Family members sat across the street from the house, greeting a steady stream of family friends. Family and friends declined to speak with a reporter Sunday morning.

State police are investigating the woman's death and the subsequent shooting of the suspect by deputies.