[July 17, 2009] Man fatally shot tried to run over officers, police say Tweet

Jul 17, 2009 (St. Louis Post-Dispatch - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- UPDATED 3:50 p.m. with more general detailMARYLAND HEIGHTS -- The man shot and killed by police Thursday after a police chase from St. Charles into Maryland Heights was not armed, but he put the car in reverse and tried to run over officers, police said.







James R. Bergmann, 34, of O'Fallon,Mo., was killed about 5:40 p.m. Thursday after he lost control of the car he was driving on Creve Coeur Mill Road, then tried to back into officers, police said.



Bergmann was a convicted felon whose drivers license was suspended. He was wanted on July 10 warrants for failure to appear in court on two St. Charles County cases.





Investigators said they found heroin and stolen merchandise inside the car Bergmann was driving but no weapons. Bergmann was behind the wheel of the car when one St. Charles officer fired several shots into the car, killing him, police said.



The officer who fired was standing outside his police cruiser, police said.



Maryland Heights police are investigating the shooting because it took place within their jurisdiction. An investigation will take about two weeks and then will be forwarded to the St. Louis County prosecutor's office for review.



The prosecutor's office will determine whether any criminal charges against the St. Charles officer are warranted. The prosecutor's office will determine, based on the police report, whether the shooting was justified, Maryland Heights police chief Thomas O'Connor said.



"The whole scenario, as unfortunate as it is for the suspect and his family, certainly appears to be perpetrated by his overt actions, his complete disregard for law enforcement," O'Connor said.



O'Connor said an autopsy, which was scheduled for later Friday, will determine how many times Bergmann was shot. Toxicology testing, which takes weeks, will show if he was under the influence of drugs or alcohol.



The St. Charles officer who fired the shots is 30 years old and has been on the force for seven years, St. Charles police spokesman Derek Piasecki said. The officer has been placed on paid administrative leave, standard procedure for officer-involved shootings.



No officers were hurt.



The chase began when a St. Charles officer attempted to stop a car with stolen license plates on Truman Road near Interstate 70. The car did not stop, and police -- eventually four officers -- gave chase eastbound on I-70 across the Missouri River into St. Louis County. Bergmann twice rammed his car into pursuing squad cars, police said.



Bergmann exited I-70 at the Maryland Heights-Earth City Expressway, heading southbound. He then turned onto Pritchard Farm Road, and finally onto Creve Coeur Mill Road, where he ran off the road.



Piasecki said department policy gives officers the right to pursue suspects. It is typical for officers to pursue if a felony case is involved, he said. The officer who starts the chase can stop it, Piasecki said. So can a supervisor.



Piasecki said the chase probably would not have happened if weather or heavy traffic had presented safety issues. St. Charles will review the incident to determine whether all department procedures were followed, Piasecki said.



Bergmann has a lengthy criminal record.



On July 10, a warrant was issued for his arrest because he had failed to appear for two separate court hearings in St. Charles County.



Both cases involved the charge of operating a motor vehicle on a suspended license. In each case, Bergmann was accused of driving when his license had been suspended because of failing to submit to a chemical test, a misdemeanor charge.



Bergmann, according to the court database, had failed to appear for hearings five times since the charges were filed in fall 2008.



Bergmann also pleaded guilty of fraudulently attempting to obtain a controlled substance, in St. Charles County, in 1998, and stealing, in St. Louis County, in 2006. Both crimes are felonies.



In the St. Louis County case, he was sentenced to prison, but eventually released into the long-term treatment program for cocaine use, according to the court database.



In the St. Charles case, he initially was given probation, but it was revoked and he was sent to prison.



Shane Anthony of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.



UPDATED 1:23 p.m. with St. Charles department proceduresMARYLAND HEIGHTS -- Maryland Heights police said this morning that one of the St. Charles officers "was forced to shoot the suspect," who has been identified as James Bergmann, 34, of O'Fallon, Mo.



Maryland Heights police have scheduled a 2 p.m. news conference to discuss additional details about the case.



Maryland Heights police Capt. Scott Will said his department is handling the investigation into the fatal shooting, because it happened within their jurisdiction. Maryland Heights officers will work to determine whether the shooting was justified, Will said.



St. Charles police will be reviewing the incident from a policy and protocol standpoint, to make sure their officers followed proper guidelines for pursuits and use of lethal force. Detective Derek Piasecki of the St. Charles police said the department's policies give officers the right to pursue suspects. It is typical for officers to pursue if a felony case is involved, he said.



The officer who starts the chase can stop it, Piasecki said. So can a supervisor. Piasecki said the chase probably would not have happened if weather or heavy traffic had presented safety issues.



Maryland Heights police were not involved in the chase or the shooting, which involved only St. Charles officers, Will said.



Bergmann has a lengthy criminal record, according to court databases and confirmation from the police.



On July 10, a warrant was issued for his arrest because he had failed to appear for two separate court hearings in St. Charles County.



Both cases involve the charge of operating a motor vehicle on a suspended license. In each case, Bergmann was accused of driving when his license had been suspended because of failing to submit to a chemical test, a misdemeanor charge.



Bergmann, according to the court database, had failed to appear for hearings five times since the charges were filed in fall 2008.



Bergmann also pleaded guilty of fraudulently attempting to obtain a controlled substance, in St. Charles County, in 1998, and stealing, in St. Louis County, in 2006. Both crimes are felonies.



In the St. Louis County case, he was sentenced to prison, but eventually released into the long-term treatment program for cocaine dependants, according to the court database.



In the St. Charles case, he initially was given probation, but it was revoked and he was sent to prison.



EARLIER STORY:By Shane Anthony of the Post-DispatchA St. Charles police officer has been put on paid leave after a chase ended in the shooting death of the suspect who fled to St. Louis County, police said today.



St. Charles Police are also conducting an internal investigation into the shooting that happened during rush hour on Thursday. The internal investigation and the officer placed on leave are both standard procedures whenever an officer fires his weapon, police in St. Charles said today.



The chase began at 5:30 p.m. Thursday on Truman Road in St. Charles County, just north of Interstate 70. The officer saw a vehicle -- a Saturn -- with stolen plates driving on the road and tried to stop it, police said.



The driver of the Saturn took off and refused to stop. Several St. Charles squad cars gave chase. A second squad tried to join in on the chase, but the Saturn attempted to ram it after getting onto eastbound I-70 headed to St. Louis, police said.



The suspect took the Earth City exit and wound up in the 2700 block of Creve Coeur Mil Road in Maryland Heights.



About 5:43 p.m. Thursday the suspect was shot by the officer and pronounced dead, police said. It is unclear whether the suspect was armed. Police have not identified the man who was fatally shot.



Maryland Heights is investigating the shooting. Maryland Heights Police Capt. Scott Will said that "several officers" from the St. Charles city police department were involved in the pursuit.



Check back for more on this story.



To see more of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, or to subscribe to the newspaper, goto http://www.stltoday.com. Copyright (c) 2009, St. Louis Post-DispatchDistributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, [email protected], call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a faxto 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

[ Back To TMCnet.com's Homepage ]