This is a 1:25 p.m. update of a story posted at 7:12 this morning.

By GEORGE GRAHAM

ggraham@repub.com



SPRINGFIELD - Springfield police have identified the 15-year-old youth struck and killed by a car on East Columbus Avenue Thursday night while attempting to evade a police officer as Delano M. Walker, Sgt. John M. Delaney said.



Delaney said Walker, of 53 Palmer Ave., was one of three youths that officers spotted on bicycles emerging from a Balise Auto Sales lot on East Columbus Avenue shortly after 10 p.m.



The driver of the vehicle, who helped officers lift his 1990 Toyoya Camry off Walker, has been identified as Vincent Ramos, 39, of Springfield, Delaney, aide to Police Commissioner William J. Fitchet, said.

Police cited Ramos after the accident with a criminal complaint for driving with a suspended license, Delaney said.



The accident occurred as Sgt. Peter Albano and officer Sean Sullivan were working an anti-car theft detail in the downtown.



The officers stopped their cruiser to talk with the youths who were in the driveway of the Hyundai dealership at 681 East Columbus Ave.



As Albano talked with two of the youths, Sullivan approached Walker, who was still on his bicycle and talking on his cell phone, Delaney said.



As Sullivan walked closer, Walker jumped off his bicycle and stepped off his curb into the street.



Walker turned towards Sullivan and took a fighting stance, clenching his fists, Delaney said. Walker then reached quickly into his right pants pocket.



Sullivan, fearing for his safety, attempted to reach for Walker's arm.



Walker then quickly took multiple steps back, still facing the officer and not watching traffic, Delaney said.



Sullivan saw the car coming but could not get close enough to Walker to stop him.



Walker backed right into the oncoming vehicle. It came to a stop with Walker trapped under the wheel.



After Walker was extricated from underneath the vehicle, the officers immediately performed CPR and first aid, Delaney said.



Emergency medical technicians took Walker to Baystate Medical Center where he was pronounced dead.



A folding knife was recovered from under Walker's right leg, Delaney said.



No other citations were issued due to the accident. Although the accident remains under investigation by Sgt. Thomas Long of the Traffic Division, it appears that speed was not a factor.



Delaney said police wanted to ask the three why they were in the parking lot.

Hampden County District Attorney William M. Bennett's office has been notified and all reports will be forwarded to him.