A Novato man who fought drug addiction died by accident after a struggle with Novato police who found him slamming his head against a gas station window, a jury concluded at a coroner’s inquest Wednesday.

The 15-member jury made the unanimous decision after deliberating for less than 10 minutes.

Samuel Gager, 39, a Novato native who lived in a group home for addicts in Hamilton, died in the early-morning hours July 19. He was being taken to Novato Community Hospital after going into medical distress while being restrained by five officers at the West Novato Shell station on Novato Boulevard.

Novato police officers involved in the incident and a witness testified Wednesday that Gager, who was shirtless, sweating profusely and wearing a towel on his head, appeared agitated, mumbled incoherently and didn’t comprehend police efforts to calm him down.

“We thought he could injure himself more if he kept hitting his head,” said Novato police Officer Brandon Matties in explaining attempts to bring him to the ground. He said Gager showed “superhuman strength” in his struggle against the handful of officers lasting less than five minutes.

Matties said that when officers saw Gager had turned blue and stopped breathing, CPR was performed as Gager briefly came to and suffered multiple seizures.

An autopsy indicated several drugs including cocaine were in Gager’s system at the time. Medical records showed he suffered from heart ailments that, combined with his agitated state, likely led to his death, according to the testimony of forensic pathologist Dr. Michael Ferenc. No significant injuries or bruises were evident, Ferenc said.

Investigators had found drug paraphernalia and small traces of cocaine and PCP – known formally as phencyclidine – at Gager’s home.

Coroner Ken Holmes makes a practice of holding an inquest when an officer-involved death occurs. Four findings are possible: death by accident; suicide; natural causes; or at the hands of another person other than by accident.

Sheriff’s Detective Greg Garrett, the lead investigator into circumstances of the death, said family members interviewed said Gager had an on-again, off-again drug problem for years.

Family members and a former employer of Gager said he had been sober for years after spending much of his adult life dealing with addiction.

On Wednesday, Tom Maloney, who had pulled into the gas station on the way to the golf course and witnessed the July 19 altercation, testified that Gager “seemed like he was fighting some demons.

“He was going to hurt himself in some way,” Maloney said. “Officers were trying to talk him down. He didn’t understand.”

Read more Novato stories at the IJ’s Novato section.

Contact Jim Staats via e-mail at jstaats@marinij.com