Police investigating a bogus robbery report fatally shot the unarmed suspect after he tried to run over one of the cops twice, authorities said Thursday.

Maximo (Flaco) Pequero, 28, was five feet from ramming plain clothes Officer Chris Labate when the cop fired two bullets into his Cadillac, police said.

Advertisement

Although cops were hunting for a supposedly armed bandit at the time, Pequero did not have a gun. The convicted drug dealer, who was identified by police sources, was hit in the neck and died at the scene.

"They didn't need to shoot him. There was no gun \[and\] they never found no gun," said Pequero's friend, Chris Nuñez, 22.

Advertisement

The Wednesday night shooting at W. 188th St. and Amsterdam Ave. is still under investigation by the NYPD.

The deadly encounter was sparked by a false report, officials said.

A man claimed he was held up at gunpoint around 8 p.m. outside a McDonald's on W. 170th St.

He flagged down a patrol car, screaming he was robbed and pointing to a silver Cadillac a few car lengths ahead.

In reality, it was a drug deal gone bad. The man had paid the guys in the Cadillac between $500 and $1,000, but didn't get any pot in return.

The cops didn't know that as they chased the Cadillac, which weaved in and out traffic.

Labate, 33, and Sgt. Daniel Schwarz, 36, blocked the driver's escape with an unmarked car at W. 188th St.

Pequero tried to ram Labate twice while attempting to flee, sources said. Labate fired one round at the windshield and a second at the passenger door.

Advertisement

Pequero's three passengers were arrested. The man who made the robbery report and his buddy were being treated as witnesses, police said.

The NYPD Patrol Guide bars cops from shooting at a moving vehicle if the car is the only weapon being used. However, Deputy Police Commissioner Paul Browne said deadly force is allowed in such circumstances if officers or civilians are in imminent danger.

Pequero was on parole after serving nearly three years in state prison for drug sale when he was caught with 13 bags of crack cocaine.