A suspected bank robber was killed in a hail of gunfire Thursday afternoon after leading police on a chase through west Mobile and Tillman's Corner, crashing his car and pointing an air pistol at officers, authorities said.

The robbery suspect has been identified as 46-year-old James A. Hill from Louisiana, police said.

A woman in a car struck by the fleeing vehicle received minor injuries, and a bullet struck a nearby day care, but no other injuries were reported.

While fleeing police, Hill lost control of his vehicle on Three Notch Road, hit a Cadillac and came to a stop in the parking lot of First Baptist Tillman's Corner, said Brian Speed, a witness who was across the street from the church when the crash happened.

As soon as the car stopped, Speed said, about 10 officers who had been chasing Hill jumped from their cruisers and started firing.

"Every police officer (who was chasing him) got out of the car and started shooting," he said. "The smoke from those tires hadn't cleared before he was dead."

"Extremely fortunate": Mobile Co. D.A. John Tyson Jr. speaks at scene after shooting

Mobile County District Attorney John Tyson Jr., who was on the scene within 45 minutes of the 3:30 p.m. shooting, said the evidence gathered at the site, and statements from witnesses, indicate that the shooting was "completely justified."

Tyson said the suspect "displayed a pistol-like weapon," provoking the police gunfire.

Photo gallery

• View a gallery of Press-Register photographs from the shooting scene

Mobile police spokesman Cpl. Charles Bagsby, in a statement Thursday night, said that the suspect pointed his weapon at the officers before they fired.

The weapon, recovered from the scene later, turned out to be an air pistol fashioned to look like the real thing, Tyson said.

Speed said the man never got out of the car. "He didn't have time, " he said.

Police did not immediately specify whether Hill was inside the car or outside when he was shot, or how many officers actually fired weapons.

Authorities say Hill robbed the RBC Bank on Old Shell Road near Spring Hill College, then led police on a chase down Hillcrest Road.

Mobile Police Chief Phillip Garrett said one officer reported that the suspect was throwing cash out of his car as he drove. Bagsby said late Thursday that most of the thrown cash had been recovered.

Nineteen-year-old Jake Clover said he was headed north on Hillcrest Road when he saw Hill's green sedan, followed by a string of police cars, speeding in the opposite direction.

Tyson said the police chase reached speeds of 80 mph at one point.

The car driven by Hill, smashed and riddled with bullets, sat Thursday evening in the church parking lot near the gold Cadillac it hit when the driver lost control.

Tyson said a woman was in the Cadillac when it was hit broadside. Miraculously, Tyson said, she suffered only minor injuries.

"We are really fortunate -- blessed, if you will -- that no one else was injured in this fray," he said.

Several bullets fired by police struck a self-service carwash next to the church, Tyson said, and another hit an adjacent day care.

Workers at the day care, who asked not to be identified, said 15 or more children were in the outdoor play area when the car crashed and the gunfire broke out.

Some of the bullets struck a wall of the carwash that was directly between the officers and the play area.

A young employee said she was in the restroom of the day care when a bullet crashed through a window and lodged itself in the frame.

The RBC Bank branch that was robbed stands in the heart of the Spring Hill commercial district.

The bank is on the south side of Old Shell Road directly across from the Spring Hill Village shopping center and about 100 yards west of the Avenue of Oaks, the tree-lined street that runs through Spring Hill College.

While the inside of the bank remained closed for much of the late afternoon, police guarding the door allowed customers to use the automated teller machine on the porch.

Initial reports said the robber wore a gas mask during the holdup, but Bagsby said no gas mask had been recovered as of late Thursday.

(Staff Reporter Mark R. Kent contributed to this report.)