MONTROSE — The funeral today for Montrose police Sgt. David Kinterknecht, who was gunned down by a drunk and suicidal man during a domestic-disturbance call Saturday night, is expected to draw more than 1,000 people, including Gov. Bill Ritter and other state and local officials.

In the crowd, there will also be two young men, Kevin and Eric Gurney. They are the sons of Dennis Gurney, the man who shot Kinterknecht before turning a gun on himself.

As this small town mourns, underneath the ceremonial pomp for a fallen officer, the tragic lines between victims and perpetrator are blurred by friendship and compassion.

Kevin Gurney said he and his brother felt a duty to be there to honor Kinterknecht.

Dennis Gurney’s widow, Pamela, said she also would like to go to show her respect for the officer who responded to her 911 call when her husband was threatening her. But she said she is afraid she would collapse, as she did Wednesday while making funeral arrangements for her husband.

Kinterknecht is a beloved hero. There is no doubt about that. The Montrose Police Department and Kinterknecht’s widow and three children have been inundated with thank-yous. Tributes have been piling up for the 41-year-old cop who never wanted to be anything else. He had been riding along in police cars since he was a kid and had been honored for good police work during his career.

But many here view Dennis Gurney as a tragic figure, rather than a cop-killing monster.

“He was not a monster. He would give the shirt off his back,” said Tisha Slater, who said Dennis Gurney was like a father to her.

Shared sympathy

Gurney had been severely burned and disfigured in a Texas oil-rig fire nearly 30 years ago. He had blended into life in Montrose for the past 20 years, hunting, joining a bowling team, playing golf and making friends with many whose lives were intertwined through family or official ties with Kinter knecht and other law enforcement officers.

While flowers have been arriving en masse at the Montrose Police Department and the Kinterknechts’ home, a few have also gone to the Gurneys’ house, where the shooting took place.

An uncle of Kinterknecht knocked at the Gurneys’ door this week with a bouquet of flowers in hand. He told the Gurneys he was praying for them and understood the tragedy was hard for everyone involved. A stranger dropped off more flowers and a Bible, saying he wanted them to know people felt bad for them too.

A former Montrose County coroner has offered to take Dennis Gurney’s ashes up in a helicopter and scatter them in a backcountry area.

On Thursday, Montrose Police Chief Tom Chinn, who has been tasked with holding a grieving department together, took time to sit down with Kevin Gurney and widow Pamela Gurney to offer his condolences. He thanked Kevin for possibly saving the life of another officer.

Kevin Gurney had been with the officers Saturday as they tried to talk his dad into coming out of a workshop where he had barricaded himself. Then the shooting started.

Kinterknecht was killed by shotgun pellets that tore into his left side, where it was not covered by his bulletproof vest.

Fellow officer Rodney Ragsdale was shot multiple times in a leg and couldn’t move. Kevin Gurney grabbed Ragsdale and pulled him to safety around the side of the building.

Officer Larry Witte also was injured.

Kevin Gurney said he doesn’t feel like a hero. He is too numb with grief.

Previous killing

Montrose has previous experience with a cop killing. In 1983, Larry McMaster, then a volunteer police officer, and Officer Steve Keep were shot when they answered a dis turbance call at a Main Street bar. McMaster died two days later.

Keep, who retired from the police department 13 years ago, said he knew Kinterknecht. They had met when Kinter knecht was only 10.

“His mom was with the sheriff’s department, and he would come over and talk to (officers) after school,” Keep said. “There was no doubt in my mind that after he turned 21, he would become a police officer.”

Keep said it is unlikely Kinterknecht will be the last officer killed while doing his job,

“Larry was killed a long time ago, but now we have another,” he said. “I hope that in 26 years, we don’t have to be talking about this again, but in our society that is not going to happen.”

Staff writer Tom McGhee contributed to this report.

Nancy Lofholm: 970-256-1957 or nlofholm@denverpost.com