Prosecutors on Thursday cleared three San Bernardino police officers of criminal charges in the death of a 40-year-old man in July.

The San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office said Kelly Galindo, a San Bernardino resident, died while in police custody due to blood loss and because he was high on methamphetamine.

“Kelly Galindo’s use of methamphetamine started a chain of events which ultimately resulted in death,” prosecutors wrote in a report.

Police came to a home in the 1000 block of South Washington Avenue on July 26 on a report of a possible domestic disturbance.

Galindo, who was trying to rekindle a failed relationship with his former girlfriend, showed signs of paranoia and hallucinations. When the woman tried to leave, he pulled her back toward the house, rummaged through two cars and grabbed a hammer.

He retreated into a bedroom when Officer Francisco Gonzalez entered the home, and tried to block the door. Galindo jumped through the bedroom window when officers broke down the door.

Coroner’s examiners said Galindo suffered three cuts on his arms and wrist from the shattered glass.

Police chased Galindo through a field, ordering him to stop. Galindo eventually stopped, turned on Officer Arnold Mathias and tried to punch him. Mathias dodged the punch, and struck Galindo in the face.

Galindo then got into a fight with Officer Equino Thomas, during which Mathias fired a Taser gun at Galindo. Galindo fell to the ground, but still refused to comply with commands by officers to drop the items in his hands – a flashlight and a sock – and roll over onto his stomach.

Police eventually got Galindo handcuffed but noticed he was bleeding profusely.

The Coroner’s Department said there were “pools of Galindo’s blood near the window that he escaped through, along the path that Galindo ran, and at the scene of the struggle with police.”

He also suffered 22 blunt force injuries, but many were considered superficial and none were considered fatal.

Family members told police they didn’t think Galindo had used drugs since he had been released from prison a few months earlier, but his mother said his behavior the night he died matched up with the way he acted when he used drugs before.

“She previously has seen how Galindo behaves when under the influence of drugs. Galindo becomes paranoid and acts abnormally,” prosecutors wrote.