Investigators are trying to determine why a man walked into a Davenport hotel Saturday, armed himself with a knife and attacked an employee before turning on a police officer, who shot him to death.

It is the third fatal police shooting in the Quad-Cities in five months. It occurred at 5:44 a.m. at the Best Western Steeplegate Inn, 100 W. 76th St.

Authorities declined to release the identity of the 54-year-old man, pending notification of family members. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday.

“We don’t know why he was there,” Scott County Sheriff Dennis Conard said. Scott County and the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation are handling the investigation.

Davenport Police officer Elizabeth Tharp, 23, was dispatched to the hotel to investigate a call about a man who refused an employee’s order to leave the building, Davenport Police Capt. David Struckman said.

Tharp saw the man was armed with a knife and was chasing an employee in the kitchen area, Struckman said. Tharp ordered the man to drop the knife several times, but the man turned on her and she shot him, police report.

The man might have armed himself with a knife from the hotel’s kitchen, “but that’s an assumption right now because the investigation is still on-going,” Conard said.

Conard said “there was a confrontation” between the man and hotel employees.

Neither the officer nor hotel employees were injured. The man was pronounced dead at the scene.

More information about the man and the incident will be released today, Conard said.

Tharp started with the police department 18 months ago. She is assigned to the third-shift patrol division. She is on paid administrative leave as directed by department policy, Struckman said.

The man was not a guest at the hotel and appears to have just walked in off the street, said

Dan Huber of Frontier Hospitality Group, which owns the Steeplegate. The hotel is located on a frontage road off U.S. 61 south of the Interstate 80 interchange.

“We have no idea why he was there,” Huber said. “He appeared to be disturbed, and he created an atmosphere in which our employees did not feel safe, and he refused to leave. He obviously acted in a very threatening way.”

Huber did not say exactly what the man was doing, but said the man made employees feel unsafe.

There have been no similar encounters at the hotel, he added.

The incident occurred at a time when employees and patrons of the hotel were starting their day, he said.

“We were opening the doors, and employees were coming into shifts,” Huber said. Some people were checking out. The hotel also serves a complimentary hot breakfast.

“This occurred during normal business hours,” Huber said. “We’re kind of on lockdown at night as most hotels are. But this occurred as we were getting ready for the day.”

Each Friday and Saturday night, an off-duty Davenport police officer works security at the hotel, he added.

“They were here last night and things were secure,” Huber said. But the man arrived at a time when an officer would not have been on duty at the hotel.

Asked if the hotel planned to change any of its procedures or security, Huber said: “Our doors were just getting unlocked. I don’t know what you could do. You have to have your doors unlocked to be in business.

“It was an isolated incident,” he added. “It could have happened at noon anywhere in the city. It just happened around 6 a.m. when we were in our open-for-business mode.

“We’re back to normal,” Huber said. “It’s business as usual for us today.”

Tharp is a 2004 Bettendorf High School graduate, who joined the department after graduating from Iowa State University in 2008 with degrees in criminal justice and sociology.

Other shootings

This is the second shooting involving a Davenport police officer within the past five months, as well as the third officer-involved shooting in the Quad-Cities in that period.

On July 31, Davenport officer Clif Anderson, 41, shot and killed Steven Tyrone Mallory, 39, on the Centennial Bridge about 11:20 a.m.

Mallory had a lengthy violent history and was a suspect in an unprovoked assault 15 minutes earlier. That assault knocked out Rylan Bebermeyer, a volunteer at the Café on Vine, a free meal site in Davenport that Mallory visited.

When Anderson tried to arrest Mallory on the Centennial Bridge, Mallory attacked Anderson.

During that attack, Mallory bit an eyebrow off Anderson, punched him, choked him and slammed his head against the pavement. The fight ended after Jim Weakley, an East Moline detective who happened to be passing by on the bridge, stopped and attempted to get Mallory off Anderson. Weakley couldn’t, but Anderson then was able to remove his gun from his holster and shoot Mallory, officials said.

Anderson, a 14-year veteran of the force, required plastic surgery for his injuries, and is back on duty.

Then, on the morning of Aug. 3, Rock Island County Sheriff’s Deputy Jason Patterson shot a man who wielded a meat cleaver at him.

Patterson responded to a domestic disturbance call at the home of Linda and Jack Roos, 14611 85th Ave. W., Taylor Ridge, Ill. Jack Roos cut his own throat with a meat cleaver and Linda Roos was attempting to prevent him from doing further harm to himself.

When Patterson entered the home, Roos still had the meat cleaver in his hand. Roos took several steps toward Patterson, who had his gun drawn and ordered the man to drop the meat cleaver.

Patterson took several steps backward as he continued to order Jack Roos to drop the meat cleaver.

Roos continued to approach Patterson, and when the man was within 5 to 10 feet, Patterson fired one round, striking the man in the chest. Roos later died from complications of his self-inflicted wounds and the gunshot.

Patterson returned to normal duties in September.



