Natalie Miller / namiller@cnc.com

Two Malden Police officers were exonerated last week in the fatal shooting of a the driver of a stolen car last August.

The Middlesex District Attorney’s Office determined that the actions of the officers involved were justified. This ruling followed an investigation by the DA’s office and the Massachusetts State Police.

“Upon a completion of this investigation, our conclusion is that the responses of the officers were justifiable under the law to affect lawful objectives, bring the incident under control, and protect lives,” said District Attorney Gerry Leone.

Malden Mayor Richard Howard said his office supports the DA’s analysis of the events of that August evening.

“We were pretty certain at the time that the officers acted as they should have,” he said.

On Aug. 3, police stopped a white Toyota Camry, which had been reported stolen in Brockton, at the corner of Salem Street and Spring Street. The occupants of the car were passengers James Calo, 29, of 141 Pierce St., Malden, and Mark Dwyer, 24, of Worcester, along with the driver, Alexander S. Nesom, 20, of East Sandwich.

According to police, while one officer was arresting Dwyer, Nesom quickly reversed, pinning the officer between his cruiser and the stolen car, and then drove forward, hitting two more officers. The two police officers that had been hit when the car drove forward then fired two shots at the car. One bullet hit Nesom in the leg, striking an artery, while a second bullet grazed his shoulder.

There were no shots fired at police.

When police were finally able to stop the vehicle, Calo was found with four bags of heroin on his person and arrested at the scene, according to the report. Nesom was later pronounced dead at Melrose-Wakefield Hospital. The three officers were transported to Whidden Hospital where they were treated for their injuries and released.

The officers were given two weeks of paid administrative leave, said Police Chief Kenneth Coye, to be sure the officers were not suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and that they were in a good frame of mind to continue to work. The three officers were back on duty by the end of August.

“The reckless actions of the driver placed the lives of all three officers in danger,” said Leone. “The two officers who discharged their firearms did so to save their own lives and those of their fellow officers.

“We have since referred the matter back to Malden Police so that they could perform an internal administrative review of the incident. We have been informed by Malden Police that their review of the facts has revealed that the officers complied with their policies and procedures. All three have been reinstated back to active duty.”

Howard said officers in Malden have opened fire in the past and there have been lawsuits against police, however every case in the time he has been in Malden has been resolved. This latest case has not resulted in any lawsuits.

Chief Coye said police using deadly force in Malden is “very unusual,” and also agreed with the DA’s ruling.

“It comes at no surprise,” he said, noting that the police officers acted in the best interest of the safety of the other officers and the possibility of people down the street of the moving vehicle.

“We did not participate in the investigation,” he said, calling the DA’s examination “very detailed.”

According to a press release from the DA, the investigation into the legal justification of the officer-involved shooting included interviews with multiple witnesses at the scene, interviews of the responding Malden Police Officers, ballistics examination of evidence found at the scene, review of surveillance video evidence, and analysis of radio transmissions, police reports and statements.