Police on Tuesday identified the San Diego police officer who shot an armed sailor wandering around a downtown apartment complex dressed in a tactical vest and a gas mask over the weekend.

Officer Charles Marciniak, a canine handler who has been on the force for 18 years, shot Petty Officer 2nd Class Esteban Nandin at the Market Street Square apartments about 3 a.m. Sunday, homicide Lt. Jorge Duran said.

Marciniak had just opened the door to a stairwell landing and came face to face with Nandin, who lifted a military assault-style weapon at the officer, Duran said.

Advertisement

Nandin, who is stationed at Coronado Naval Amphibious Base, was struck in the arm and suffered shrapnel wounds to his upper torso, Duran said. He stayed in the stairwell for almost an hour until stumbling out a side door where he was taken into custody.

Officer Marciniak was involved in another shooting in March 2001 in the Gaslamp Quarter in which a 28-year-old man was killed.

He and other officers had responded to The Blue Tattoo nightclub on Fifth Avenue where disgruntled patron Deon Bowen had returned with a gun after being kicked out.

When officers arrived, Bowen opened fire at them, and Marciniak and two other officers shot back. The gunbattle left Bowen dead and six others wounded. The officers were not wounded in the shootout.

In 2004, Marciniak was honored by the Burn Institute and received a Spirit of Courage award for helping evacuate a hotel that was on fire.

Duran said the Marciniak has been placed on administrative duty, which is routine, until the investigation into the shooting is complete. Chief of Police Bill Lansdowne will determine when Marciniak may return to regular duty.

Nandin is expected to be released from the hospital sometime on Tuesday or Wednesday, Duran said.

The lieutenant said detectives planned on presenting their case against him to the District Attorney on Tuesday. The Navy will conduct its own investigation into the incident, Duran said.

The lieutenant said investigators did not know the motive for Nandin’s actions but suspect alcohol may have been involved. There is no indication he wanted to commit suicide, Duran said.

The sailor had been in the Navy for six years and was working as an electronic technician for an explosive ordnance disposal unit, Navy officials said.

Nandin’s father Pedro Nandin, who lives in Eagle Pass, Texas, told U-T San Diego that his son had seen tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan. He said had no idea what led to Sunday’s incident.