The names of five officers who fired 16 rounds at an armed man in a car, killing him, were released today by the Boulder County Sheriff’s Office.

The fatal shooting happened early Monday morning in Longmont.

Brian Christopher Naranjo, 35, of Longmont died in a hail of police gunfire after he refused officers demands to put down a handgun, the Sheriff’s Office said.

The Boulder County coroner’s office said today that Naranjo died from multiple gunshot wounds to the head and chest.

Two sheriff’s deputies and three Longmont police officers involved in the incident were named in a joint media release from the two agencies.

Sgt. Jason Oehlkers, 34, and Deputy Todd Moody, 29, were the two members of the Sheriff’s Office involved, and David Bonday, 37, Bruce Pettitt, 40, and Mike Snelson, 36, were the police officers.

Oehlkers has 13 years of law-enforcement experience,and Moody has five years’ experience, the release said.

Bondy has served in law enforcement for 13 years, Pettitt seven years and Snelson 11 years, according to the release.

Naranjo was stopped by the Sheriff’s Office at about 2:45 a.m. Monday near the intersection of Eighth Avenue and Lashley Street.

The car was pulled over on a “routine” stop, Boulder County Sheriff Joe Pelle said, and it was discovered that Naranjo was wanted on an outstanding warrant and that the car had a stolen temporary tag on it.

During the stop, a handgun was spotted in Naranjo’s vehicle, and he took off.

The car was pursued, and one of the Longmont officers rammed it, and the vehicle came to a stop near the intersection of Third Avenue and Emery Street.

A bean bag was fired at the car and broke a window, Pelle said. Officers were yelling commands at the driver, who was not responding.

Pelle said Naranjo lifted his arm with a gun in his hand and the five officers fired simultaneously.

Police did not say how many times Naranjo was hit.

A breakdown on how many shots each officer fired was not released.

Naranjo had a long arrest record, according to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation, including numerous drug and traffic arrests.

In January 1999, he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of carrying a concealed weapon in Longmont, according to CBI records.

A month later, he was arrested in Boulder County on felony suspicion of carrying a concealed weapon and a felony drug-possession charge. In November 1999, he was convicted of the two charges and sentenced to three years in prison, according to CBI records.

In December, in a case out of Longmont, Naranjo was charged with drug possession, speeding and driving while under restraint. He failed to appear at a court hearing for the December arrest, according to CBI records.

The fatal shooting is under investigation, and officers involved will be placed on routine administrative leave.

No officers were injured in the incident.

Kieran Nicholson: 303-954-1822 or knicholson@denverpost.com