BEAVERTON - A prominent businessman and son of a former Oregon Speaker of the House was shot dead this morning after he exchanged gunshots with police at his Beaverton home.

Authorities said Rudie Wilhelm III, 54, 9775 S.W. Rodeo Place, was suicidal. It wasn't known if he shot himself or was killed by police gunfire. He died at sunup Thursday on the front porch of his home.

View Larger Map

Wilhelm headed Rudie Wilhelm Warehouse Co., an Oregon food warehouse that began business in 1910 in downtown Portland and closed its doors in Milwaukie in May 2008.

Wilhelm's father was Rudie Wilhelm Jr., speaker of the Oregon House of Representatives from 1953 to 1955. Wilhelm Jr. helped found Portland State University, was chairman of the advisory council for Oregon Health Sciences University and a trustee at Reed College.

Beaverton Police spokeswoman Detective Pam Yazzolino said Wilhelm III was armed with a shotgun when officers arrived at his home.

The incident began sometime after 5:30 a.m. when Wilhelm called 9-1-1, saying he was considering suicide. Yazzolino said the man's front door was open when police arrived, and it was hard to see because of limited light available at dawn.

Yazzolino said Wilhelm shot towards police and one officer returned two shots. Yazzolino said after the sun rose minutes later, officers saw Wilhelm's body lying on the front porch.

She said she did not know how many officers responded to the original call at Wilhelm's home. She also said there were factors not being released publicly that would explain why it was difficult to tell whether Wilhelm shot himself with his shotgun or was killed by police gunfire.

Beaverton officers carry .40-caliber Glock handguns, which creates a wound that is normally smaller and distinct from a shotgun blast.

The Washington County Major Crimes Team was handling the investigation, she said, adding that additional details about the shooting would not be immediately available.

The officer who fired toward Wilhelm was being interviewed by investigators this morning, Yazzolino added. His identity was not released.

No one else was in the home, and there was no one else injured.

-- John Snell;

johnsnell@news.oregonian.com