The widow of a western Nebraska man who died after being arrested has lost a federal lawsuit against the city of Bayard and its police chief.

Jessica Driscoll said her husband, Daniel Driscoll, suffered from a phobia of being handcuffed behind his back. And although several people warned Bayard Police Chief Zakary Douglass, she said, he cuffed Daniel Driscoll's hands behind his back and put him in the back of his cruiser on Aug. 18, 2009, to talk to witnesses, then refused to remove them even after he was in medical distress.

Douglass used a breathing mask to try to help Daniel Driscoll breathe as he waited for the ambulance, which arrived after about 10 minutes.

Shortly after being placed in the ambulance, the 31-year-old man was pronounced dead. An autopsy determined he died of a heart attack.

In a lawsuit filed in 2011, Jessica Driscoll alleged her husband had been subjected to false arrest and excessive police force, for cuffing his hands behind his back and leaving him in a cruiser for an extended period of time with the windows rolled up.

She also accused the city of failing to train its police officers and of violating the federal Americans with Disabilities Act.

In an order Monday, U.S. District Judge John M. Gerrard said Daniel Driscoll had been left in the air-conditioned cruiser for six to eight minutes, which, he said, wasn't an extended length of time under the circumstances.

And, he said, the only time anyone could be heard on a video of the arrest mentioning Daniel Driscoll's phobia was after it was too late to make a difference.

What could have been a routine and uneventful encounter with police ended tragically for the Driscoll family, Gerrard said.

"With the benefit of 20/20 hindsight, many things from both parties' perspective could have occurred differently. But the court specifically finds that, however regrettable the events of Aug. 18, 2009, may be, evidence has not been presented from which a trier of fact could reasonably find any violation of Daniel's rights under the Constitution or the relevant statutes," he wrote, and dismissed the case.

Jessica Driscoll's attorneys, Gregory Beal and Robert Harvoy of Ogallala, did not return a call seeking comment Monday.