Justin Teigen eluded St. Paul police early Wednesday morning by hiding in a recycling bin.

The 24-year-old resurfaced about six hours later when workers at an Inver Grove Heights recycling facility found his body amid a heap of recycling material.

Although the cause of death has yet to be determined, St. Paul police suspect that Teigen, of St. Paul, was seriously injured in a car crash while fleeing an officer and later died in the Dumpster.

“It’s a horribly tragic thing,” said St. Paul police Sgt. Paul Schnell. “It’s one of those things that regardless of the fact that he fled, you always wonder if he would still be alive had paramedics and hospital staff been able to treat him.”

The Dakota County medical examiner’s office will perform an autopsy.

“One of the things we’re waiting on is whether he was in a condition where he couldn’t get out of the Dumpster and was crushed still alive or whether he died as a result of injuries after hiding,” Schnell said.

St. Paul police give this account of the chase:

Just before 3 a.m., an officer saw a car driving recklessly in a parking lot near Snelling and University avenues. The officer stopped the car, which was being driven by Teigen and contained two passengers.

When the officer told Teigen to keep his hands where they could be seen, he accelerated and fled. Before the officer could get into his car and start a pursuit, Teigen crashed into a concrete pillar in the 1400 block of West University Avenue.

The officer saw Teigen running south on Pascal Avenue, but the officer stopped to check on the two passengers injured in the car.

Schnell said alcohol may have played a role in the crash.

Other officers began searching for Teigen as St. Paul fire paramedics treated the passengers — two men in their mid-20s. Both were treated at Regions Hospital in St. Paul for serious but not life-threatening injuries, Schnell said.

Inside Teigen’s car, officers found a handgun and suspected narcotics, Schnell said.

Officers looked for Teigen in the area throughout the morning and checked several addresses he frequented.

About 9 a.m., workers at Allied Waste Recycling discovered his body.

Inver Grove Heights police investigators and agents from the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension contacted St. Paul police after determining the body was most likely brought to the recycling center by a truck working a route on University Avenue.

St. Paul homicide investigators checked with several University Avenue businesses, and one produced video footage of Teigen climbing into a recycling bin, Schnell said.

Jeff Brown, a plant manager at Allied Waste Recycling, would not comment Wednesday.

It was not the first time Teigen has fled authorities. He was convicted of fleeing a peace officer in a motor vehicle in March 2008 after being charged with the felony in 2007, court records show. He was convicted of the same offense in 2006.

Since 2005, Teigen had been convicted five times of driving after suspension or revocation of his driver’s license, most recently in October. He was convicted of driving while intoxicated in 2005.

Although rare, there have been similar cases in which people have been scooped up by garbage trucks, Schnell said.

In January 2008, a homeless man sleeping in a trash bin in St. Paul suffered minor injuries after he was dumped into the back of a garbage truck. The truck driver picked up two more loads of trash before seeing the 47-year-old trying to climb out.

But Schnell said he couldn’t recall another incident in St. Paul in which someone hid in a trash bin and was later found dead.

“Certainly we’ve had suspects who’ve fled and hid in a variety of places — a Dumpster being one of them,” Schnell said, “but unfortunately this time it ended tragically.”

Mara Gottfried contributed to this report.

Nick Ferraro can be reached at 651-228-2173.