"The cops are afraid of me now," he said the day he died.

Josh Davies believed bullets couldn't hurt him.

He'd developed super powers, he said, by staring at the sun for hours to burn off government-planted bacteria in his eyes.

He believed he no longer needed to sleep.

Davies talked that way in more than 100 videos he made, many in the hours leading up to the moment Aug. 21 when a state trooper shot him to death. Davies came at the officer with a knife on a road in Mexico and defied orders to stop, state police said.

In that moment, Davies hadn't slept in days, was jacked up on cough medicine and carried a pile of hate toward police, according to his friends and the videos.

Davies, 27, said in an Aug. 13 video that sleep was a government conspiracy to control the masses. He kept himself awake with an over-the-counter cough medicine, Coricidin, he said. He said he regularly took eight pills at once, his friends said. The manufacturer recommends no more than two.

"I did not go to sleep last night," Davies said. "I'm going to try not to sleep anymore." The video shows a close-up of his face, unshaven with sunken eyes.

Around 8 p.m. that night, he told a friend, Michael Bohrer, that he believed humans had been programmed to wrongly believe they needed sleep.

Three hours later and five miles down the road, Trooper Paul Darmody-Latham fatally shot Davies.

Here's who was coming at the trooper: an aimless man with a history of arrests and confrontations with police -- and an erratic distrust of government. His life, chronicled by police reports and by the videos, appeared to have been building toward this confrontation.

Davies seemed to be stalking police. In one video he made months before his death, he follows a state trooper's car around Mexico. He also took 15 close-up photos of a trooper's car in the village.

"The cops are afraid of me now," Davies said in a video on the day he died.

Davies had confined his world to the Internet, the high he'd get from Coricidin, and a few out-of-work, agitated friends who had grown tired of his ramblings about government conspiracies. The extent of his mental health history is sketchy. His parents, Kevin and Gayle Davies, of Mexico, declined to discuss it.

But after one of his eight arrests over the past nine years, Davies ended up in Oswego Hospital's mental health facility on Bunner Street in Oswego, according to a friend, Sam Parkhurst, of Mexico. It was 2005, and Davies was tripping on Coricidin, Parkhurst said. The officers thought he might be suicidal, Parkhurst said.

Davies' mother was concerned about his mental health and wanted to get him help, Parkhurst said. But Davies didn't want it, and there wasn't much she or his father could do, Parkhurst said.

In the week leading up to the shooting, Davies was fluctuating between hyper and quiet, Parkhurst said.

"He was telling me he was always awake," said Parkhurst, who stayed up with Davies a couple of nights before the shooting. In the Aug. 13 video, Davies said he planned to "keep a video diary of my little experiment. I'm trying to become an insomniac."

On the night of the shooting, Darmody-Latham responded to 911 calls from people saying a man was wandering into and out of traffic.

Shortly before that, Mexico residents reported to Time Warner Cable that a man was yanking on wires attached to a cable box on Church Street. In one of his videos that day, Davies said he planned to rip down the box because the government was using it to brainwash people.

About 300 people lost their cable service that night because a vandal pulled the power supply off a utility pole, said Jeff Unaitis, a spokesman for Time Warner. When a repairman arrived to fix the damage, he heard gunshots nearby, Unaitis said.

State police said Darmody-Latham fired three times at Davies. They said Davies was coming at the trooper with a knife and defying the officer's commands to stop. State police have not said how many times Davies was struck nor how far he was from the trooper. An Oswego County grand jury is reviewing the case.

A few hours before his confrontation with the trooper, Davies gave his homemade videos to Bohrer. Davies wanted Bohrer to help him start a Web site with the videos, according to Bohrer. Bohrer gave a copy of all the videos to The Post-Standard.

"I think he's guilty of believing everything he read on the Internet," said Bohrer, who said he tried to help Davies by steering him toward Web design. "He'd read these other nuts talking about these different conspiracies."

Davies often walked the five miles along Route 69 from Mexico to Parish, past Bohrer's business.

He stopped in a couple of years ago and asked for work, Bohrer said. Bohrer told him he first had to sober up from alcohol. Davies returned a few months later, sober and determined to become a Web designer, Bohrer said.

In a couple of the videos, Davies talked about the government planting bacteria in people's eyes to sedate them. Bohrer and other friends said they'd often see Davies looking directly at the sun for a long time, sometimes hours.

Once the government-planted bacteria were burned off, he said, "bullets can't hurt you," he said in a video that appears to have been made in the dark. "You cannot die."

In the summer of 2008, he built a fort of branches in the woods off Route 69 in Parish, near Bohrer's business. The fort was still standing two weeks ago.

"This is the world of Joshua Davies," Bohrer said. "When the world was going to come to an end, he was going to be ready for it."

The fort is 30 feet long, cone-shaped and built around two massive fallen tree limbs. There was a small tent inside.

Davies called it "the secret spot," Parkhurst said. "He'd go there and meditate -- big time into meditating."

Davies says in one video that he was kicked out of school in Mexico and later kicked out of his house by his father. He said he lived with his grandparents for a while, but that he was homeless. He said he'd had jobs at an aluminum foundry in Pennsylvania, as a garbage man, and at fast-food restaurants. None of them stuck, he said.

"I always felt like I had to run away and get to nature," he said.

In the nine years before his final confrontation, Davies had had many others. The Oswego County Sheriff's Department arrested him eight times between 2000 and 2008 -- often for obstructing police officers.

He was charged in March 2005 with disorderly conduct and criminal mischief after throwing ice balls at the window of Key Bank in Mexico, and then taunting a state trooper and sheriff's deputy. Davies told officers he wanted to be arrested, according to a police report.

"Josh kept running in circles around a building, stating, 'I'm going to make you earn your money, to catch me,'" the trooper said in the report. After he was handcuffed, Davies made a motion to his pocket and pretended his hand was a gun, the report said. "I'm going to shoot you too," he said, according to the report.

Sheriff Reuel Todd said his deputies knew Davies well.

"He was aggressive with deputies," Todd said. "He was aggressive pretty much with everybody. He just was vocal and demonstrative toward the police. No idea why."

Kevin Davies had agreed to talk to a reporter about his son and what led to the fatal shooting. He initially said he hoped some good could come out of the tragedy. But he canceled the interview and said he would wait for the grand jury investigation.

In response to one question, he did give a brief response.

"I wish I knew a little more about my son's mental health, to be honest with you," Kevin Davies said.

"Hopefully, before all is said and done, our family will know more to help us all understand better what actually went on," he wrote in an e-mail to The Post-Standard. "This way we can all be at peace."

Josh Davies was at Parkhurst's house a few hours before his death. He left, as he always did, on foot, carrying his ever-present laptop, Parkhurst said.

He'd been obsessed with the novel "1984," in which government is portrayed as a big brother watching over everyone.

"He gave me the peace sign and said, 'I love you, dude. Why do I feel like I'm in '1984?'" Parkhurst said.

In a video a few days before his confrontation with the trooper, Davies talked about a recent news story about a mother in Salina being Tasered by a police officer in front of her kids on a traffic stop.

"What this is doing is desensitizing us to it," he said. "Every time that happens and we the people don't stand up and do something about it, we allow that to happen to us later."

In an earlier video, he said he was tripping on three boxes of Coricidin but that he's "still in the right state of mind." He said his computer monitor is all scratched up from all the fights he'd been in. He talked about cops all being afraid of him. And he makes a vow:

"I'm not ever going back to jail."

John O'Brien can be reached at jobrien@syracuse.com or 470-2187.