An Anne Arundel County police officer fatally shot a bank robbery suspect Monday night after the man tried to run him over in the parking lot of a Brooklyn Park liquor store, police said Tuesday.

Police believe the same man, Brian Keith Doukas, 47, might be tied to as many as four robberies in Anne Arundel County in the past week, and police in Howard County said he might have been involved in recent robberies there as well.

Advertisement

About 6:30 p.m. Monday, officers spotted a pickup truck in front of Murph's liquor store in the 6000 block of Ritchie Highway in Brooklyn Park. The truck matched the description of a vehicle involved in a robbery about 30 minutes earlier at an M&T; Bank inside a Shoppers Food Warehouse in Millersville, police said.

When an officer got out of his car to investigate, Doukas rammed the truck backward into the police car, then sped toward the officer, police said. The officer fired several times at the driver, and the pickup veered into a parked vehicle, police said. Doukas was pronounced dead at the scene.

Advertisement

Police had obtained a warrant for Doukas' arrest earlier Monday for the robbery of a PNC bank in Crofton on Saturday. He was also suspected in two other holdups in the past week.

Lt. James Fredericks praised the officer involved in the shooting, a 16-year veteran of the department. The officer was not hurt and has been placed on routine administrative leave while the shooting is being investigated.

Doukas had a lengthy criminal record and was charged with robbing or trying to rob a number of small businesses in Anne Arundel and Howard counties in 2002, court records show. He pleaded guilty in connection with some of those charges and was sentenced to 10 years in prison, though he served some of that time awaiting trial.

"He was a wonderful person ... who got mixed up with drugs," his mother, Dorothy Doukas, said Tuesday. Crying, she described her son as "a very thoughtful, kind person."

She said Doukas had been living with her in Charlotte Hall, near Mechanicsville. When he received a speeding ticket Aug. 4 in Charles County, he gave authorities there his mother's address, court records show.

It was the fourth shooting in two months - the second fatal - by an Anne Arundel County police officer. On June 29, police killed a man who was threatening a man at a business near BWI Marshall Airport. The next day, an officer wounded a teenager who police said was trying to steal a car in Laurel and appeared to reach for a weapon. And on July 12, police critically wounded a 51-year-old Arnold man in what they said was a dispute with officers at his home that began when a hospital asked police to check on his wife.

A third fatal shooting took place in April, when police shot a 42-year-old plumber in Millersville when he refused to drop his weapon and instead took aim at an officer.