Scott Horvath hadn't seen or heard from his ex-wife's brother in nearly two decades.

Then he learned this morning that Jacob Paul Stolarz was shot and killed by Chicago police officers responding to a call of a man with a knife in the Loop.

Advertisement

"I married his sister in 1990 and I left her in '91. I haven't talked to them in 19 years," said Horvath, a Vietnam veteran who remembered Stolarz as a "loner" prone to temper tantrums.

In fact, few details were emerging today about Stolarz, 45, who was shot Thursday after he grabbed an 80-year-old man and held a knife to his throat, according to police. A police officer was also shot but escaped harm when the bullet, fired by a fellow officer, struck his protective vest.

Advertisement

Authorities say they have not been able to find a valid home address for Stolarz.

He was arrested in May 2003 on charges of assault and smoking on the CTA and later pleaded guilty, court records stated. Driver's license records showed he was 6-foot-4, 190 pounds and at one time lived in a two-flat in the 4800 block of North Springfield Avenue on the Northwest Side.

A woman who answered the door at that address today said she didn't know the Stolarzes, and neighbors on the block said a family by that name had lived there years ago.

Horvath lived with his former wife Nadine in the first-floor unit for less than a year in 1990 and 1991. Stolarz, who was known as Jake, lived upstairs with his mother and mostly kept to himself.

Horvath remembered being intimidated by Stolarz's size. "He was huge; he was a tough guy," he said. "He used to constantly work out with weights." He didn't remember if Stolarz had a job or what he did with his spare time, besides lifting weights.

Frankly, Horvath said, he didn't know much about his brother-in-law except that he "was prone to temper tantrums."

He often heard Stolarz ranting and shouting at his mother. Sometimes, he said, his wife at the time would kneel by the heating vents in the downstairs apartment to eavesdrop.

"He was complaining about society, about living conditions," Horvath said. "He would scream at the top of his lungs and she would take it because he was her son."

Advertisement

Horvath never met Stolarz's father and, after he separated from Stolarz's sister, he cut all ties with the family.

-- Andrew L. Wang and Ben Meyerson