Phil Anderson

Five people -- including three teenagers -- lost their lives this this weekend in accidents on Kansas roadways.

According to the Kansas Highway Patrol, Glen G. Walters, 34, of Densmore, died early Sunday after he was ejected from his 2007 Dodge Ram pickup truck, which crashed about five miles west of Logan in Norton County.

The patrol said Walters, who was alone in his vehicle, was traveling west on K-9 highway in Northwest Kansas when his truck left the roadway, entered the south ditch and struck a driveway entrance to a field.

The truck then became airborne, hit the ground and rolled a couple of times. The truck came to rest on the roadway facing southeast.

The accident occurred at approximately 5 a.m. Walters, who was pronounced dead at the scene, wasn't wearing a seat belt, according to the patrol.

In another fatality accident early Sunday, Amber Rose Schmitt, 17, of Burdett, died when the 2002 Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck she was driving crashed in Hodgeman County in southwest Kansas.

Schmitt, who was alone in her vehicle, was traveling south about 12:30 a.m. on US-283 highway about 3 miles south of Jetmore when her truck left the roadway, entered the west ditch and came back onto the roadway, the patrol said. Schmitt then lost control of her truck, which went back into the west ditch and rolled.

Schmitt, whom the patrol said wasn't wearing a seat belt, was taken to Hodgeman County Health Center in Jetmore, where she was pronounced dead.

On Saturday night, two teenagers were killed in a one-vehicle accident in Sedgwick County.

Whitney N. Young, 17, of Wichita, died when the 1997 GMC minivan she was driving crashed about 9:20 p.m. just northwest of Wichita.

The patrol said Young was traveling east on K-96 highway just west of Tyler Road when she failed to maintain a single lane and overcorrected. The minivan then left the roadway and overturned several times in the median. The crash scene was just northwest of Wichita.

A passenger in the minivan, Holly A. Marler, 18, of Maize, also died in the accident.

Both Young and Marler were wearing seat belts.

Jared R. Kannady, 22, of Maize, a third passenger in the minivan, was reported injured and was taken to Wesley Medical Center in Wichita. He was wearing a seat belt, the patrol said.

On Saturday afternoon, a motorcycle rider died after he was attempting to flee from law enforcement officers at 31st Street and Southwest Boulevard in Kansas City, Kan.

The patrol said Thomas Maurice Ozborne, 31, of Kansas City, Kan., was riding his Harley Davidson motorcycle about 3:50 p.m. east on Southwest Boulevard, fleeing from Kansas City, Kan., police officers, when the crash occurred at the Missouri-Kansas state line.

Ozborne collided with a 1999 Ford van driven by Consuelo Silva-Trejo, 38, of Kansas City, Mo.

The patrol said Silva-Trejo's van was westbound on Southwest Boulevard in Kansas City, Mo., attempting to make a left turn south onto 31st Street. Ozborne popped a wheelie on his motorcycle, then struck the van.

Ozborne, whom the patrol said wasn't wearing a helmet, was pronounced dead at the scene.

Silva-Trejo, who was wearing a seat belt, was reported injured. She was taken to The University of Kansas Hospital in Kansas City, Kan.

Phil Anderson can be reached at (785) 295-1195 or phil.anderson@cjonline.com.