A San Antonio police officer fatally shot a 16-year-old late Sunday outside a West Side gas station after the teen refused to drop his handgun and instead pointed it toward the officer's patrol partner, authorities said.

Devon Christopher Spencer was killed around 10:45 p.m. after Officer Paul Armendariz repeatedly fired at him out of fear that the teen was going to shoot his partner, whom police didn't identify, according to an incident report.

Spencer was pronounced dead at the scene. Meanwhile, the seven-year police veteran was placed on administrative duty while the Police Department investigates the confrontation, a standard procedure when an officer is involved in a shooting.

On Monday, Police Chief William McManus addressed the recent spike in officer-involved shootings. Sunday's was the seventh since the beginning of August. And, so far this year, there have been 15 of them, compared to 10 in 2008.

McManus said his concern is that officers are being put in situations where they are forced to react.

"They are required to defend themselves and the public who are victimized by these crimes," he said in a prepared statement.

The chief said Sunday's shooting occurred after the two officers, both members of the Tactical Response Unit, saw the armed teenager run into the Valero in the 1400 block of Culebra Road wearing a ski mask.

Suspecting a robbery, authorities said the two officers notified dispatch and drove into the parking lot.

The officers saw the teenager hold one of the two clerks inside at gunpoint and then reach over the front counter to take money from the cash register, according to the incident report. No customers were inside of the store at the time, authorities said.

When the teen ran out the front door, the officers told him to drop his weapon, the report said. It was unknown how many times Armendariz fired at the teenager or how many bullets struck Devon.

It was the third time in four years that 32-year-old Armendariz has fired at suspects while on duty and the second time the shooting has been fatal. Last year, he shot and killed 39-year-old Juan Ignacio Gutierrez after the suspect fatally stabbed a woman inside a room at the downtown Emily Morgan Hotel.

In December 2005, Armendariz wounded Joe Flores Jr. after the suspected pointed a weapon at him.

He has been cleared of any wrongdoing in both previous shootings.

Meanwhile, police continue to investigate if Spencer was involved in other recent armed robberies in the area. Details of those robberies weren't immediately available Monday.

Also, attempts to reach Spencer's family for comment were unsuccessful Monday. Outside his home, a friend of the family requested privacy on their behalf.