New York State Police have released the name of the man who was shot and killed by a Trooper on the Robert Moses Causeway on Sunday afternoon. Steven Barraco, 42, whose last known address is 172 West 4th St. in Deer Park, was shot by an unnamed trooper after a high-speed car chase turned into a foot pursuit and assault.

At about 3:15 p.m., Barraco, who was driving southbound in a Toyota Camry, was observed by a Trooper in a marked patrol car parked on the center media of the causeway, near the main span of the bridge. Baracco allegedly made an illegal U-turn over the grass median and headed northbound on the Causeway. Not long after, Baracco executed another U-turn—this time legally—and then disobeyed a stop sign at the turn around area. The Trooper tried to stop Barraco, who then fled the scene.

A chase ensued, with the cars traveling more than 100 mph at times. The Trooper notified the barracks that he was trying to stop a car that fled.

The pursuit came to an end when Baracco’s car got stuck in some brush on the median after he tried to elude the Trooper. Baracco then got out of the car and tried to flee on foot, and at one point turned to face the Trooper and threatened him. They began to fight, and the struggle took them from one side of the road and back to the median, with Baracco punching the Trooper in his head and face. The Trooper produced a department-issued expandable baton and used it to try to subdue Baracco, to no avail.

The Trooper eventually lost the baton to Baracco, who then began to beat the Trooper with his own weapon. The Trooper fell to the ground and Baracco pounced on him, using the baton to beat the Trooper in the head, police said.

During the struggle, the Trooper was able to pull his .45 Glock from his holster and shoot one round into Baracco’s upper body. The Trooper lost consciousness while Bracco fled into a wooded area, where witnesses say he threw the baton.

Several witnesses did try to help the Trooper, and two tackled and subdued Baracco as he tried to run from the scene. Barraco was detained until additional police could arrive on the scene.

New York State Police personnel attempted to give first aid and CPR to Barraco, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

The Trooper was transported via police helicopter to Stony Brook University Hospital, where he was treated and released for injuries to his face and head.