But that hectic routine stopped suddenly Wednesday night after Boose's blue Mazda was struck by the car of a man fleeing a police traffic stop. The driver of that car, identified as 18-year-old Esau Cade Jr., whom a co-worker described Thursday as "a great kid," also was killed after being ejected from his red Chevrolet Cavalier.

Friends of both victims were in shock Thursday.

"It's complete disbelief," said Gloria Bruno, who has played Trivia Bowl and worked on charity events with Boose for more than 20 years. "You don't expect that type of thing to happen to someone like her. She had so much life in her." Cade's friends were just as stunned by the news.

"He was always smiling, always enjoying himself," said Brett Honeycutt, assistant manager at the Car Toys store where Cade, from Aurora, worked. "I became friends with him instantly when he started at the store. He's one of those guys you have to like."

The accident occurred just before 9 p.m. Wednesday at the intersection of East 14th Avenue and Quebec Street. Two officers apparently observed Cade coming out of an apartment complex parking lot at East Eighth Avenue and Ivanhoe Street at a high rate of speed and began following him. Near the intersection of Ninth Avenue and Jersey Street, the two officers turned on their lights to pull over Cade.

Cade refused to stop, said Denver police Sgt. Cliff Carney. Cade continued north on Jersey for several blocks, rolling through a stop sign at 13th Avenue. At that point, Carney said, police turned off their lights but kept following Cade. They followed from several blocks behind as he turned east onto 14th Avenue.

"A short time later, there's a call out that the suspect was involved in an accident at 14th and Quebec," Carney said.

According to an accident report, Cade ran a red light at the intersection, striking the left rear of Boose's vehicle. Her car spun about halfway around and slammed into a light pole on the corner. Cade's car hit a curb, flipped onto its roof and ejected him. Carney said Cade was traveling at least 60 mph when his car hit Boose's vehicle.

Denver police spokeswoman Virginia Lopez said the officers acted appropriately, despite a police policy that limits chases.

"The officer did nothing wrong," she said. "There was no chase." According to Colorado Bureau of Investigation records, Cade was wanted as a parole violator on a juvenile charge.

Boose, who friends say was wellknown in Loveland, was in Denver for a Colorado Youth Tennis Foundation meeting to distribute money to train young tennis players.

"She always had a smile on her face," said Doug Chester, a league coordinator for the Colorado Tennis Association. "She always wanted to pitch in. Any time we needed something in northern Colorado, we would give her a call."

Ben Sylvan of The Denver Post contributed to this report.