The NYPD cop charged in the drunken-driving death of a preacher's daughter frantically screamed, "Please don't die!" as he tried to revive her, a witness told the Daily News.

After cop Andrew Kelly mowed down Vionique Valnord on a Brooklyn street, he and witness Emmanuel Cenord pulled her broken body from under a parked car, Cenord said yesterday.

Advertisement

Cenord, a medical assistant, said he began performing mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on Valnord as the off-duty cop pumped her chest.

"He was traumatized," Cenord, 26, said. "He was screaming, 'Oh, my God! Please don't die! Please don't die!' "

Advertisement

"I was like, saying to him, 'Calm down,' " Cenord said. "He seemed to be trying to help."

Cenord said after several repetitions of chest compressions and puffs of air - the two men worked in tandem without speaking to each other - Valnord suddenly showed signs of life.

"She opened her eyes slightly and she appeared to be breathing," he said. "I think we revived her."

Cenord appeared to corroborate a claim by Kelly's lawyer that the cop tried to help the woman and "brought her back to life."

A law enforcement source downplayed Kelly's attempt at first aid last week. Investigators have not interviewed Cenord.

Kelly, 30, is charged with vehicular manslaughter and DWI in the Sept. 27 death of Valnord, who was leaving a wedding reception for Cenord's brother-in-law when she was mowed down in Flatlands.

"I heard, 'Boom!' and saw her go up in the air so high she was about to hit the streetlight," Cenord said. "My wife was screaming [Valnord's] name. I called 911 on my cell phone."

Cenord said he did not notice anything about Kelly that would suggest he was intoxicated.

Advertisement

"To tell you the truth, I was focused on her, but I didn't smell any alcohol," he said.

Investigators said Kelly - who sources said drank at a bar and then a friend's home - reeked of booze and had slurred speech and bloodshot eyes. A court-ordered blood test performed seven hours later showed no alcohol content.

The NYPD's Internal Affairs Bureau is investigating the testing delay. On-duty cop Robert McGinn has been suspended after sources say he gave Kelly chewing gum and two bottles of water at the scene in an effort to hide his drinking.

Brooklyn District Attorney Charles Hynes met with Valnord's father, mother and brother yesterday for 45 minutes and assured them the prosecution is going forward.

Family lawyer Sanford Rubenstein said Kelly's rescue attempt is irrelevant.

"Clearly, he is not a hero," Rubenstein said. "What's relevant is his drinking and the fact that he killed an innocent woman."

Advertisement

jmarzulli@nydailynews.com