PASCAGOULA, Miss. -- Results of a grand jury investigation released Monday cleared the Pascagoula Police Department from any wrongdoing in the Sept. 28 shooting death of 55-year-old Grady Wells.

"The grand jury has determined that the events of Sept. 28, 2009, were tragic for the citizens of Pascagoula, the police officers involved and for the Wells family," the grand jury report stated. "However, the grand jury has determined that the actions of the Pascagoula police officers were justified and in necessary self-defense and that no criminal wrongdoing occurred with this incident."

The report did not identify the officers involved in the shooting.

Pascagoula police Chief Kenny Johnson said the investigation result was a step toward closure for his department.

"No officer comes to work with the intent of killing someone, but it's a very real possibly," he said. "The incident was thoroughly investigated by the grand jury. Hopefully, this will provide closure for the Wells family, too."

Wells, a native of Three Rivers, was living in New York and visiting Jackson County to attend the funeral of his 87-year-old father Daniel Wells.

According to the report, Wells was recklessly driving his white 2005 Mercedes at 9:52 a.m. on Sept. 28, when a woman called 911 and said a man with New York license plates tried to ram her on the Martin Luther King Causeway in Gautier. The causeway stretches from Gautier to the War Memorial Bridge in Pascagoula.

A Pascagoula officer stopped Wells on Pascagoula Street as he entered the city via the bridge, the report said. Wells got out of the car with a martial arts sword or machete-type weapon, and made advances on the officer, according to the report

The officer fired three shots at Wells, who returned to his car and fled south on Pascagoula Street.

Wells then drove around several roadblocks and rammed a motorcycle patrolman before he crashed his Mercedes into a utility pole on Live Oak Street.

He then got out of the vehicle again, with the sword-type weapon, and advanced on officers, according to the report.

"Two Pascagoula police officers discharged their firearms," the report stated. "One bullet struck (Wells) in the neck, which was determined to be his cause of death."