WATERLOO - A Waterloo man sought by police since a Sunday assault shot himself Tuesday afternoon during a standoff with police in a park near the Cedar River and died overnight at University Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City.

Officers had been talking with Johnny Ray Dixon, 43, who was armed with a handgun, in a wooded area near Shirey Way for about two hours when he pulled the trigger, injuring himself, police said.

Paramedics with Waterloo Fire Rescue drove Dixon to Allen Hospital, where he was flown by helicopter to University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City. Waterloo Police Capt. John Beckman said this morning that Dixon died overnight.

The self-inflicted gunshot wound brought an end to the three-day man hunt that started Sunday when police surrounded Dixon's ex-girlfriend's house on West Ninth Street.

According to police, Dixon had slipped inside the house uninvited sometime around 2 a.m. Sunday.

Dixon held the woman against her will. The 42-year-old ex-girlfriend escaped shortly before noon and ran for help.

Dixon fled the house before police arrived.

Acting on information that Dixon was armed with a gun and, believing he was still inside, Waterloo police surrounded the home for hours. They finally fired tear gas into the house but found it empty when they entered.

Patrol officers continued to respond to sightings of Dixon, who was known to ride a bike, Sunday evening. But they were unable to locate him.

Then at about 12:30 p.m. Tuesday, Cedar Falls officers received a tip that Dixon was on the bike trail near Lookout Park.

Officers from Waterloo, Cedar Falls and the Black Hawk County Sheriff's Office - some armed with shotguns and clad in heavy body armor -- combed the paths and nearby parks.

At one point, an Army National Guard helicopter was flying circles above the area around Hartman Reserve.

Police eventually found Dixon at 1:30 p.m. west of Shirley Way, which is a dead-end street that runs along the Cedar River off of North Hackett Road.

When officers tried to get close, Dixon threatened to harm himself, police said. Police cordoned off the area and tried to talk him into giving up.

EARLIER STORY:

WATERLOO --- A man suspected of assaulting an ex-girlfriend on Sunday shot himself after law enforcement officials found him Tuesday afternoon.

Overnight, the man, Johnny Ray Dixon, 43, died, police said.

Police had been looking for Dixon after an alleged assault at 919 W. Ninth St.

Dixon is accused of entering the home of an ex-girlfriend at about 2 a.m. Sunday and holding the 42-year-old victim against her will. The victim escaped just before noon and called for police, saying Dixon was armed with a gun.

Waterloo's tactical team surrounded the home Sunday, shooting tear gas canisters into the house, which was found empty.

At about 12:30 p.m. Tuesday, the Cedar Falls Police Department received information that Dixon was spotted on the bike trail near Look Out Park. Cedar Falls and Waterloo officers and deputies from the Black Hawk County Sheriff's Office began checking the area and found Dixon in a wooded area along the Cedar River west of Shirey Way and North Hackett Road around 1:30 pm.

When officers approached Dixon, he threatened to harm himself with a handgun. Officers established a perimeter and encouraged him to give himself up.

After nearly two hours of talking, Dixon shot himself. Waterloo Fire Rescue paramedics transported Dixon to Allen Hospital. Dixon was airlifted to the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City in critical condition.

The investigation into this incident continues.