PLEASANT HILL — Authorities have identified the man shot to death after a tense five-hour police standoff near Sunvalley mall as Renardo Antonio Flores.

A SWAT officer fired a single, fatal shot at Flores, 32, who police say repeatedly shot at officers from inside a house near the mall.

In the end, police deployed tear gas through the front door, and Flores retreated to the backyard with an assault rifle when the sharpshooter killed him, said Pleasant Hill police Lt. Dan Connelly.

Flores died about 4:05 p.m., ending the stalemate on Audrey Lane involving several police agencies, the Contra Costa County Sheriff’s Office and the California Highway Patrol.

The first report of shots fired from the home, directly west of the mall across Contra Costa Boulevard, came at 10:51 a.m. Police briefly exchanged gunfire with Flores upon arrival. Soon after, police learned that during an earlier dispute that day he had shot an acquaintance, who later showed up at a hospital with a superficial wound.

“Evidently he got into a fight with his girlfriend, she took off, then he went into his house and I don’t know what the hell was going on,” said Paul Bernhardt, a cooking teacher who lives three houses away from the suspect on Audrey Lane. “And the neighbor down the block tries to talk to him. He got shot. The bullet just grazed his neck.”

At least four series of gunshots erupted on the street until Flores was shot, three of them directed at officers. Police set up a SWAT team and sniper and used flash-bang grenades and tear gas to drive out Flores, whom police say responded with gunfire.

“All day, after he had been barricaded in the house and officers had made numerous attempts to contact him … each time he responded by shooting at officers,” Connelly said.

Pleasant Hill resident Luke Rockwell was among the spectators standing near the end of Audrey Lane when at least two more shots were fired though the home’s garage about 1:50 p.m. Some people thought the bullets had ricocheted across Contra Costa Boulevard. Members of the media were moved back, away from the house.

“We were just standing there watching, and suddenly there was a ‘bang, bang, bang,’ and then a ‘Get back!'” Rockwell said.

About 3:35 p.m., two loud bangs could be heard, followed by smoke rising from the standoff area. Police negotiators using a bullhorn were attempting to talk to the man. Members of the media were moved back, away from the house; security guards at Sunvalley mall attempted to clear the west parking lots.

Many people stayed outside despite the police order for nearby residents to stay indoors. The shelter-in-place order was issued for Audrey Lane, Christine Court, Baylor Lane and the 1800 block of Contra Costa Boulevard.

“The neighbors called and said they heard shots fired, but nobody actually saw anything. We’re all standing there in the middle of the street and there it went: ‘pop pop pop pop!’ And everybody started scrambling. I ran into my house freaking out,” Bernhardt said.

Bernhardt, the cooking teacher, said he saw Flores often but didn’t know him well. He described him as a quiet man who kept two pit bulls.

Bernhardt spent all day on the street, at times surveying the standoff with binoculars from behind bushes.

“When they brought in the armored personnel carrier, it looked like soldiers,” he said. “I knew something bad was going to happen. It wasn’t going to be a good Sunday for somebody.”

Staff writer Robert Salonga contributed to this report.