Nathan Samuel, 29, was pronounced dead at the scene after Broken Arrow Police Officer Stephen Garrett II shot him in Samuel’s front yard in northern Broken Arrow, police said. Officers went to the residence, in the 20900 block of East 36th Place, about 11:45 p.m. Tuesday after a neighbor called to report a domestic disturbance between a husband and wife. When the first officer, Garrett, arrived at the residence, the husband, Samuel, had gone back into the house, leaving his wife in the yard with a neighbor, police spokeswoman Maj. Carole Newell said. As Garrett approached the house, Samuel reportedly came out brandishing a knife over his head, Newell said. “The officer drew his gun and gave him several commands to stop but he kept advancing forward. As a result of the man’s actions, the officer had to use deadly force,” Newell said. Samuel and his wife have four children, including 6-year-old twins, a 9-year-old and a 3-year-old, a family member said. The children were inside the house and did not witness the shooting, police said. Allen Saunders, Samuel’s brother-in-law, said the wife and children are staying with his family. “She called us as soon as it happened,” Saunders said. “They will stay with us until we can figure this out. Everyone’s pretty hysterical right now. We haven’t told the kids yet. We’re trying to figure out how to do that.” Saunders said the couple had been having marital problems and that the wife and children had moved in with her mother. He said the wife went to the house Tuesday night because Samuel wanted to see the children and to discuss some issues. Janet Harris, who lives next door with her husband, said she heard loud noises coming from the residence about 11:15 p.m. “That’s not unusual for that house, they have a lot of parties, but it is unusual for a school night,” she said. Harris said she stepped out on her back patio and that’s when she heard the gunshot. “I just went cold. My first thought was that he had shot his wife,” Harris said. Harris, who has lived in the neighborhood for more than 20 years, said the couple had borrowed things from her in the past but that she did not know them well. Newell said officers reported an odor of alcohol and that a pending toxicology report would confirm whether Samuel had been drinking. Garrett, who has been with the department for eight years, will be placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, police said. The department’s last officer-involved shooting resulting in a death was in 2007, Newell said. It also occurred during a domestic violence call, she said. Samuel was convicted of driving while impaired in July, court records show.