As they chased a suspect into Salem Creek on Wednesday morning, Sgt. Mickey Hutchens and Officer Daniel Clark thought the man was armed with a knife -- not a gun, Police Chief Scott Cunningham said yesterday.

During a news conference at the Public Safety Center, Cunningham provided the most detailed account so far of the shootout that left Hutchens and Clark wounded and Monte Denard Evans, 35, of Winston-Salem dead.

The officers did not have their guns drawn as they chased Evans from the Bojangles' on Peters Creek Parkway, into the ravine where Clark exchanged gunfire with Evans at close range.

"You don't know what you have until you're neck-deep in it," Cunningham said.

Evans fired "multiple times," and Hutchens was hit first, Cunningham said. Within moments, Clark fired his handgun, and exchanged shots with Evans.

Cunningham declined to say whether Hutchens fired his weapon.

Hutchens was shot in the face, and the bullet penetrated his skull. Two bullets hit Clark, including one that was stopped by his bulletproof vest. Cunningham said that Clark's vest saved his life.

The shootout occurred in less than two seconds, Cunningham said.

"It was a close-quarter incident," he said.

Evans had gone to the Bojangles' restaurant on Peters Creek Parkway on Wednesday morning to confront his ex-wife, Sally Evans. The two had a troubled relationship, and Sally Evans had told her co-workers that she was afraid of her ex-husband.

Hutchens and Clark responded to a 911 call about 10:30 a.m. at the restaurant.

When Monte Evans saw the officers, he ran from the restaurant and the officers chased him.

Several witnesses saw that Evans had a firearm, but they weren't able to tell Clark and Hutchens about that before the officers began chasing Evans, Cunningham said.

"There were some indications that he had a knife," Cunningham said. Evans "made the decision to escalate the situation."

Cunningham spoke on behalf of Clark, saying that Clark regrets the shooting, and that Clark "genuinely feels pain" for Evans' mother.

Capt. David Clayton, who leads the police criminal-investigations division, said that crime-scene investigators have finished their work, and have turned over evidence to the State Bureau of Investigation.

The SBI talked with witnesses yesterday, Clayton said, and will interview Clark sometime next week.

Clark and Hutchens were taken to Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center.

Cunningham said that Clark is recovering from the wound in his head by his right ear.

Clark was released from the hospital yesterday afternoon. Hutchens remains in critical condition.

A neurosurgeon told Cunningham that Hutchens' injuries were "critical and grave."

"We don't know the extent of his injuries yet," Cunningham said, partly because Hutchens is so heavily sedated. "He is not out of the woods yet at this point. He is … doing well, considering where he's at."

Hutchens cannot speak because of tubes in his mouth, but Cunningham said he has seen him open his eyes and move his right foot. Doctors believe Hutchens has made some improvements.

"He has taken positive steps," Cunningham said.

Cunningham also thanked the individuals and organizations that have offered prayers and support to the department and those affected by the shootings.

"This has not torn the community apart, but rather brought it together," he said.

Before Cunningham's news conference, about 100 people attended a noontime prayer vigil in Corpening Plaza for Clark and Hutchens.

The Rev. Laura Spangler of Lloyd Presbyterian Church asked people to pray for a peace that begins in the home.

"Haven't we been made aware of the terrible consequences of domestic violence?" she said.

The vigil was sponsored by CHANGE, or Communities Helping All Neighbors Gain Empowerment.

Kevin Neff, a member of the department's rookie class, attended the vigil.

Neff, 28, joined the department after a stint in the U.S. Coast Guard. He said he didn't expect to be attending a vigil for a fellow officer so early in his police career.

"It's one of those things you understand is a possibility," he said.