A fatal officer-involved shooting two weeks ago at Wallowa County campground was justified, according to a grand jury decision.

The Wallowa County grand jury was convened Oct. 16 to consider the Oct. 7 shooting of hunter Roy S. Bass, Jr., 52, by sheriff's deputies in rural northeastern Oregon. Bass, of Wallowa, died after being shot three times at the Boundary Campground at the edge of Eagle Cap Wilderness, about 7 miles from Wallowa, along Bear Creek Road

View Larger Map

The shooting by Undersheriff Steve Rogers, 54, and Detective Neil Rogers, 44, was "a justified use of deadly physical force," according to the grand jury.

A summary of the incident by Wallowa County District Attorney Mona K. Williams reveals that Bass pointed a handgun at a trio of U.S. Forest Service workers who were discussing removing a tree from an embankment near his campsite. On hearing "a metallic click like the dry fire of a gun," and hearing Bass recite what sounded like Bible verses, the forest workers backed away to call the Wallowa Sheriff's Office, where deputies matched their description to a man who antagonized a senior trooper in the campground in July.

As the forest workers left, Bass sat in a lawn chair and waved at them with a smile, according to the summary.

Undersheriff Rogers, Detective Rogers and three other officers responded. The two Rogers, who are unrelated, both have 20 years of law-enforcement experience and have worked with the sheriff's office for nine years. They planned to arrest Bass on a charge of menacing.

But a smiling Bass waved them closer, his left hand shoved deep in his pocket, the summary stated. Ordered to remove his hand from his pocket, "the smile on his face changed to a look of determination" according to the summary, and Bass pulled a gun with his right hand and pointed it at the younger officer, swearing.

Det. Rogers yelled and fired once, shooting Bass in his shoulder. The undersheriff, seeing Bass aim at the detective, also fired, twice, hitting Bass in his side and back.

The summary concludes that during a search of Bass' camp after the shooting, Oregon State Police investigators found the man's loaded handgun near his body, a second handgun in a backpack on a picnic table and two hunting rifles in a case in his vehicle. Autopsy results were consistent with statements of the officers.

--