The Ukiah man who died Monday night after being stunned with Tasers had been released from San Quentin just two days earlier and had been using methamphetamine when he attacked an officer, the Mendocino County Sheriff's Office said.

Christopher John Belknap, 36, died Monday night after being stunned three times during a fight with a Mendocino County sheriff's sergeant and a Ukiah police sergeant.

He attacked the sheriff's sergeant -- who had stopped his car to make a cell phone call -- without saying a word, said Sheriff's Lt. Rusty Noe.

"All he did was start swinging. This was all out of the blue," he said.

Belknap had a long history of assaults, drug abuse and resisting arrest, Noe said. He was sent to prison in April on a parole violation after he kicked out the window of a patrol car following his arrest for resisting arrest, Noe said. He was released on Saturday.

The Monday altercation began at about 8 p.m. when Belknap approached the sheriff's sergeant, who was sitting in his vehicle, he said. The officer got out of the car when he saw Belknap coming toward him.

Belknap began throwing punches, striking the officer several times, Noe said.

As they fought, the sergeant deployed his Taser gun, stunning Belknap, who fell to the ground. Belknap got back up and he was stunned again. He again fell, but then pulled out the Taser barbs and resumed fighting, Noe said.

A Ukiah police sergeant arriving on the scene deployed his Taser, stunning Belknap a third time, he said.

The officers were still struggling with Belknap, placing him in leg restraints, when he became unresponsive, Noe said.

Paramedics took him to Ukiah Valley Medical Center, where he later died.

Tests done before Belknap died found he had used methamphetamine, Noe said.

The death investigation -- led by the Mendocino County District Attorney's Office -- is continuing. The cause of death has not been determined, Noe said.

Staff Writer Glenda Anderson can be reached at 462-6473 and glenda.

anderson@pressdemocrat.com.