w/m, 53 and mentally ill, killed during shootout with Pasadena PD officers Joshua L. Ridings, 25 (a rookie of a few months), and D.R. Shechter. Terral, a fugitive wanted for sexual assault of children, was reported to be at Dunkin' Donuts. When officers arrived, Ridings approached Terral, who pulled a gun, and shot s were exchanged. Terral was not hit, but Ridings was struck in the arm and shoulder. Shechter then retrieved a rifle from his patrol car and shot Terral through the window. It is reported that a surveillance camera shows that Terral shot himself in the head immediately prior to Schechter shooting him. Terral's father believes police should have approached him differently because he warned them that he was suicidal and his son said if he was confronted by police, one of them would die. Terral is the 25th person known to have been shot to death this year by a Harris County police officer. (media reports)

58. 11/14/09 - Jose Ruben Andino, killed when shot by Houston PD officer James Crawford, an 11-yr. vet. Officers received information that a home invasion was planned, and began conducting surveillance there. They saw a "suspicious" vehicle in the area. When they tried to stop the car, a short chase followed, then the driver got out holding a gun, according to police. He allegedly pointed the gun at Crawford, who shot Andino, hitting him at least once. Andino is the 24th person known to have been shot to death this year by a Harris County police officer. (media reports)

57. 11/8/09 - John Eric Owens, b/m, wounded when shot by Houston PD officer C.F. Rohling, a 5-yr. vet assigned to North Patrol Div. Rohling responded to a burglar alarm and got a description of the burglar from a witness. When he later saw Owens, who allegedly fit the description, he ordered him to show his hands. Rohling claims he instead put his hands in his sweater pockets and began backing away. Rohling pulled his gun and claims Owens then drew a gun and pointed it at him. Rohling grabbed for the gun, they struggled, and Rohling shot him "at least one time," and dropped his gun. He claims Owens then took both guns and ran, but dropped the guns as he fled. (media reports)

56. 11/7/09 - Thomas Rangel, 26, killed when shot by Houston PD officer J.F. Lucero. a 7-yr. vet assigned to the Gang Div. Rangel and 2 other men were walking through a convenience store's parking lot, where they had apparently purchased some beer. One of the men was holding an open can of beer (Class C misdemeanor), and the officers began searching them for weapons. As Lucero searched Rangel, he claims Rangel struggled with him and pulled a pistol from his waistband. Lucero shot him several times. Rangel is the 23rd person known to have been shot to death this year by a Harris County police officer. (media reports)

55. 10/25/09 - Joshua Gwyn, 18, wounded when shot by Pct. 3 deputy constables Adam Garcia and Milton Rivera. Officers tried to stop Gwyn for speeding, and a 15-min. chase ensued. Gwyn finally stopped, but officers claim he tried to run over them when they approached his car. Both officers fired several times; Gwyn was hit in the left shoulder. (media reports)

54. 10/14/09 - Robert Brock II, w/m, killed when shot by Harris County Sheriff's deputy M.C. Ivy. Officers responded to a caller who said Brock was threatening his wife with a gun at a Taco Bell. When they arrived, Brock left in his pickup and drove a short distance to his home. Officers followed, and surrounded his truck when Brock pulled into his driveway. Claiming he made a suspicious move, Ivy shot Brock through the window of his truck, killing him. Brock is the 22nd person known to have been shot to death this year by a Harris County police officer. (media reports)

53. 10/12/09 - Taylor O. Williams, 21, wounded when shot by off-duty Pct. 7 deputy constable T.M. Roe and San Jacinto Sheriff's deputy P.E. Sowell. Williams was at a strip club and began dancing on stage with the dancers. He was removed from the club. As the officers (who were working as security guards at the club) approached him in the parking lot, they claim he pulled a gun from the trunk of his car, and fired toward them. Both officers then shot at him, striking Williams in the side and buttock. (media reports)

52. 10/9/09 - Jose Oseguera, h/m, killed when shot by Houston PD officer M.J. Marin, a 2-yr. veteran. When officers responded to an assault call, they saw Oseguera stabbing his girlfriend on an apartment balcony. As they climbed the stairs to the balcony, a neighbor tried to intervene in the stabbing, but was himself stabbed. Marin fired twice at Oseguera, who then turned toward the officers. Marin fired again, hitting Oseguera in the head, killing him. The neighbor also died at the scene. Oseguera is the 21st person known to have been shot to death this year by a Harris County police officer. (media reports)

51. 9/28/09 - Pedro Acuna, h/m, wounded when shot by Houston PD officer G.E. Polk (13-yr. vet, Westside Patrol). When Polk saw a car that looked like one reported stolen, he ordered the driver to show his hands. Instead, he claims Acuna reached for a gun in his waistband. Polk shot him several times, hitting Acuna in abdomen and hand. (media reports)

50. 9/27/09 - Juan Martinez, h/m, 18, wounded when shot by South Houston PD officer M.J. Garcia. Police say Martinez was driving a stolen car, and refused to stop, instead leading leading them on a chase through the small city. He crashed, then allegedly tried to run over Garcia, who shot him in the left shoulder. (media reports)

49. 9/19/09 - Nicolas Bustos, h/m, 18, wounded when shot by Precinct 6 reserve deputy constable D. Villareal, working off-duty as a security guard. Villareal saw Bustos and three other males inside his car, apparently stealing items from it, and shouted for them to stop. Bustos ran and allegedly reached under his shirt. Villareal claimed he feared for his life, and shot him. Bustos was not armed. (media reports)

48. 9/19/09 - Gary Rick Varner, w/m, 49, killed when shot by Houston PD officer Richard L. Kent (7-yr. vet, Tactical Operations Div.) Neighbors complained that Varner had threatened them. When officers arrived, Varner barricaded himself in his home. SWAT officers were called and, after 2 hours, Varner allegedly pointed a gun at them; he was shot once and killed by Kent. Varner is the 20th person known to have been shot to death this year by a Harris County police officer. (media reports)