An Escondido police detective was justified in using deadly force in the unintentional 2009 fatal shooting of a police informant who was with a parolee in a stolen car at the time, the District Attorney’s Office said.

The shooting of Jennifer Lynn Favreau, 27, of Escondido, by Detective Timothy Reiley was in self-defense, District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis said in a letter to Escondido Police Chief Jim Maher. The seven-page letter, which contained the results of an investigation by the DA’s Office, was released Friday by Escondido police.

Favreau had been an Escondido police informant for about a year, the report said. On the morning of Oct. 15, 2009, she told Escondido police Detective Roger Cirilo that her boyfriend, Christopher Ramirez, 28, had stolen a white Ford Focus and that he was going to pick her up in the car later in the day. Ramirez was on parole for auto theft.

Advertisement

Cirilo told Favreau that he did not want her to leave her apartment in the car with Ramirez because police planned on stopping and arresting him in the parking lot of her apartment complex on Grand Avenue. But about 11:30 a.m., both left the apartment and got into the car, the report said.

Detectives identified themselves as law-enforcement officers and ordered Ramirez to stop. Ramirez backed up the car and rammed a police sport-utility vehicle, then rapidly accelerated toward three detectives who were standing in the parking lot, including Reiley, who told DA investigators that he thought Ramirez “was going to plow through us.”

As he tried to get out of the way, Reiley fired four times at Ramirez, who was not hit. Reiley told investigators that he did not know Favreau was in the car because the officers who radioed that the car was leaving did not say that both a man and woman got inside. Reiley said that because of the bright overhead sun, he did not see Favreau.

Two of the shots struck Favreau as she leaned forward in the passenger seat. Ramirez continued driving forward, sideswiping a detective’s car and them ramming head-on into a patrol car with Officer Arthur Stephens inside. The officer said that he held onto the steering wheel and stomped on the brake to brace for the “violent” impact.

Reiley said the car came within a foot or two of where he was standing.

“We were yelling ‘police’ and he was driving right at us,” Reiley told investigators. “... I thought I was gonna get hit. I was trying to get out of the way.”

Dumanis said that the incident was “a tragic case, but based on the events as they unfolded, it’s reasonable to believe Detective Reiley fired at Mr. Ramirez in self-defense and unintentionally hit Ms. Favreau. He therefore bears no criminal liability for his actions,” she said.

On Nov. 17, 2010, Ramirez pleaded guilty to three counts of assault with a deadly weapon on a peace officer and one count each of assault with a deadly weapon. He was sentenced last month to 10 years in state prison.

A wrongful-death lawsuit has been filed in federal court against the Escondido Police Department on behalf of Favreau’s child and mother. An autopsy determined that Favreau, a single mother, died of a gunshot wound to the torso.

Ramirez had both amphetamines and methamphetamine in his system when he was arrested, the report said. Ramirez told police that he saw the Ford Focus with the keys in the ignition the day before and stole it, and that he was high on methamphetamine at the time.

susan.shroder@uniontrib.com (619) 293-1876