The medical examiner's office has identified the person who died after a car lost control as it was being chased by Chicago police.

Keirre Roberts, 23, of the 2100 block of West Monroe Street, was pronounced dead at 5:51 a.m. Wednesday at Stroger Hospital.

Advertisement

The accident happened about 5 a.m. Wednesday in the 1700 block of West Congress Parkway in the Illinois Medical District neighborhood, said a spokesman for the Chicago Fire Department.

Three people, men in their 20s, were in the car and they were all taken to Stroger Hospital in serious to critical condition.



Advertisement

The chase began after Harrison District officers responded to a call of a suspicious vehicle in the 1100 block of South Karlov Avenue. Police were told that occupants in the car had been possibly breaking into other cars.

When officers arrived, they saw two people inside a car and one person outside. "He was looking into parked vehicles [nearby]," said Chicago Police Officer Robert Perez, a police spokesman.

The officers tried to stop the men but they fled in the car, Perez said.

The officers pursued the car -- described by witnesses as a gray Chevrolet Lumina -- onto the eastbound Eisenhower. The car crashed off the expressway (Interstate Highway 290) at Paulina Street and Congress Parkway.

Witnesses working at a construction site nearby said the car was traveling about 80 mph. The witnesses said soon after the car pulled off I-290, they saw police cars with their lights activated in pursuit.

"It was about 45 seconds ahead of the police. They crashed and the next thing you know about five to seven police cars come wheeling up,'' said one of the construction workers.

The car lost control on the wet pavement, bounced off a concrete construction barrier and ripped off about half a block of a metal chain link fence just off the expressway. The car then went off the road and hit several trees.

Police removed a black bag containing electronic equipment from the car. Ten car stereos were found in the car, police said.

Advertisement

The witnesses said one of the people in the car managed to get out and was apprehended about a half-block away.

Perez said the driver of the car faces criminal charges and traffic citations.



--

and

Jeremy Gorner