The following text was automatically extracted from the image on this page using optical character recognition software:

2009 TIMELINE

.... continued

October

Former councilman, teacher indicted

The Collin County grand jury issued an indict-

ment Oct, 1 for Merrill Young, a former Wylie City

Councilman and Wylie ISO teacher. The charge is

"securing documents by fraud," a third-degree

felony; it has been issued as the result of investi-

gation by the Wylie PD.

Artifacts uncovered near civic complex

Wylie City Council voted Oct. 13 to enter into

an agreement with Collin County to pay for the

continued excavation, research, cataloguing and

display of some rare, prehistoric artifacts that

were unearthed when the Texas Department of

Transportation began construction of FM 1378

from FM 544 to Brown Street.

WF-R celebrated century of service

It was a night of reflecting on the past and

looking toward the future as members and friends

of Wylie Fire-Rescue met in the brand-new First

Baptist Church Wylie Special Event Center for a

banquet celebrating the 100-year anniversary of

the department Oct. 24.

Churches expand

Two Wylie

churches have

recently taken

steps to

expand their

presence in the

community.

Gateway

Community Church broke ground for a new facil-

ity Oct. 18, and First Baptist Church Wylie opened

its community events center Oct. 25.

November

Four arrested for stealing car, backing In store

Christopher Vince, 20, James Darrell Abernathy

Jr., 19, Misti Lynn Abernathy, 20, and Benjamin

Sicks, 20, have been arrested and charged with

engaging in organized criminal activity in relation

to a car theft and vandalizing a downtown Wylie

convenience store.

WHS FFA alum earns national recognition

Jennifer Cunningham, 2009 graduate of Wylie

High School and two-year president of the

school's FFA chapter, has been honored with the

Home and/or Community Development -

Entrepreneurship, Placement Proficiency Award.

She received the honor for the Feed Wylie pro-

gram.

Voters OK $25M for academy, refurbishing

Wylie ISD voters approved a $25 million propo-

sition for refurbishing older schools and building

a new Achieve Academy campus but denied two

other proposals totaling $52 million.

Proposition 1, which included fiber optic ring

and security upgrades and improvements to

Wylie Pirate Stadium and Shaffer Stadium at a

cost of $7.75 million, was defeated by a vote of

2,467 (56.34 percent) to 1,912 (43.66 percent).

Proposition 2 totaled $25 million for repairs

and upgrades to the district's older campuses as

well as the construction of the Achieve Academy

It passed by a margin of 2,258 (51.53 percent) to

2,124 (48.47 percent).

Community looks for answers after slaying

Nov. 7, Wylie carpenter Jonathan Bird, 28, told

a teenage driver to slow down in his neighbor-

hood. The driver left and returned with four

friends who beat Mr. Bird to death. All five of the

suspects were apprehended by Wylie police with-

in 12 hours. Four are 16 years of age and cannot

therefore be identified; one man, Ethan Dorris, is

17. All are Wylie residents.

Seven-hour barricade ends In death

Jeremy Richard Bates, 28, of Wylie was shot and

killed by police Nov. 9 after having been barricad-

ed in a house in the 600 block of Odenville for

seven hours, armed with a rifle.

Rain contributes to fatalities on 205

LAVON - Hydroplaning on a rain-slicked road

most likely caused a crash that resulted in the

death of three motorists and sent three more to

the hospital Nov. 20. The accident took place on

Hwy. 205 at CR 746, just south of the Hwy. 78

intersection near the Boyd Farm.

According to Lonny Haschel, public informa-

tion officer for the Texas Department of Public

Safety, at 10:07 a.m. Friday, Nov. 20, a 2008

white Hyundai SUV began to hydroplane, causing

it to crash head on into a 2005 Honda minivan.

December

It's Christmastime In the city

The first-ever Wylie Arts Festival turned Olde

City Park into a winter wonderland of sights,

sounds and shopping.

Coach arrested for relationship with teen

Bradley Glenn Thompson, age 26, a coach at

Wylie High School, was arrested by the Collin

County Sheriff's office Dec. 9 on the WHS cam-

pus. According to the sheriff's office, Thompson

was arrested on charges of sexual assault of a

child, a felony.

Council to continue fireworks, street dance

Wylie City Council voted Dec. 8 to host a fire-

works show and July Jubilee Street Dance during

the summer of 2010

Search for missing St. Paul man continues

The family of

Morton Hendricks of

St. Paul continues to

search for the miss-

ing senior citizen.

Mr. Hendricks left

his home Dec. 4 for

his daily trip to Lake

Lavon and has not

been seen or heard

from since.

2010 to bring road construction, more ACTION

continued from page 7A

John Hunt, Keith Jenkins,

Brandon Monroe, Shawn Poe.

Firefighter/Paramedic Richard

Hollien was named as Greatest

First Responder for Wylie by

CareFlite.

Looking to the future,

Manson said, "2010 will be

marked with significant

progress in improvements to the

infrastructure of our communi-

ty. The final steps of the con-

struction phase of the municipal

complex, recreation center and

library will take place by the

end of 2010, leading to the

opening of the three new amaz-

ing facilities in late 2010 or

early 2011. FM 1378, both the

western and eastern portions of

Brown Street, S. Ballard Street.

Stone Road and Hwy. 78 will all

be in varying stages of construc-

tion. The improvements and

expansion of Founders Park will

be under construction, the

The improvement and expansion of Founders Park is on schedule for 2010.

improvements to Community

Park will be designed and engi-

neered, and the Parks and Open

Space Master Plan will be com-

pleted.

We will continue to empha-

size the health of our neighbor-

hoods through our

Neighborhood A.C.T.I.O.N.

plan and sidewalk replacement.

We will maintain the same level

of excellence in public safety.

We will maintain our roads,

water and sewer systems with

the same hard work and dili-

gence. But perhaps the most

important activity in 2010 is the

attention that will be paid to the

economic and financial health

of the city.

.. da, A,

oors

Showroom at design center

650 Country Club Road | Wylie, Texas 75098

Locally owned and operated

S?ary Gox Or on i£e weS a/: JKilte Gox

214.878.9143 WWW.COXFINEFLOORS.COM 949.202.8057

1st Saturday each month!

LOW COST PET VACCINATIONS

(All vaccines available)

Where: Tractor Supply in Wylie

• 900 S. Westgate Way

When: Saturday, January 2, 2010

9 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Veterinarian on Premises

Heartworm testing and preventative,

Frontline plus flea control and microchips available

"2010 will demand difficult

decisions. But times such as

these also breed efficiency and

innovation, and we are up to the

challenge."

Though there are no doubt

conflicts in the city's future, it's

equally likely that goals will be

reached, bonds will be formed,

and challenges will be met. But

whatever lies ahead, the city of

Wylie and its cast of thousands

stand ready to greet 2010.

Places, everyone. The 2010

curtain's going up ...

M.

The city's first Wylie Arts Festival brought goods, artisans

and crowds to Olde City Park for demos and shopping.

Flu facts

- A flu vaccinc is the single best way to protect against influenza illness

- Flu season typically runs from October through April/May

- Cover your mouth when you sneeze or cough

- Wash your hands often or use an alcohol based hand sanitizcr

- Try to avoid contact with sick people

- Stay home if you arc sick until 24 hours after you are fever free

H1N1 VACCINE AT 68 LOCATIONS IN COLLIN COUNTY

For No Cost at:

PrimaCare Clinics Express Health in McKinney

Collin County Adult Clinic in Piano

Children & Community Health Center of McKinney

For an Fee at:

Albertsons Pharmacies Kroger Pharmacies Care Now Clinics

Walgreens Pharmacies Celina Drug

Tom Thumb Pharmacies Texas Star Pharmacy

If you have 100+ people that would like to be vaccinated, we will be happy to arrange a free clinic.

Please contact Greg Brown at gbrown@co.collin.tx.us or 214.491.6854.

Healthcare Services

972,548.5500

a

j^i

www.collincountytx.gov

Homeland Security

972.548.5537

