San Pablo police officers shot an unarmed 16-year-old carjacking suspect Saturday after he stopped running and wheeled with his hands in his waistband, authorities said Monday.

But 16-year-old Leonard Bradley Jr. carried no weapon.

“He might have thought he had a handgun” that police later found inside the car, San Pablo police Cmdr. Walt Schuld said. “Another thing we”re thinking is … he had the victim”s cell phone in his pocket.”

Officers never got the chance to ask the Richmond teen. Fearing he would attack them, both San Pablo officers chasing Bradley on Saturday night shot him several times. He died soon thereafter; on Sunday police arrested three other teens suspected of joining Bradley in a carjacking gone bad.

Richmond and San Pablo police, as well as the Contra Costa District Attorney”s Office, continued investigating the shooting Monday. San Pablo police administration said, tentatively, that Officers Ken White and Frank Perino appeared to act within department policy, firing because they believed their lives were in danger.

White injured his knee during the chase. Both were placed on paid leave pending the results of an internal investigation.

The officers joined a wild chase about 6:20 p.m., beginning moments after a carjacking on the 1900 block of Dover Avenue in San Pablo.

“A couple in a (Chevrolet) Monte Carlo, girlfriend and boyfriend, stopped at her mother”s home to drop off some things,” Schuld said. “She was driving. She gets out and goes inside.”

Meanwhile, three men whom the victims saw walking on the block as they pulled up approached the vehicle. Police say all carried handguns, and they ordered the male victim out of the car.

“The people in the house peeked out and saw the male victim was out of the car, getting shaken down. They took his cell phone, cash,” Schuld said. “One of the suspects saw they were peeking out, and he fired a couple of rounds at the house.”

Bradley got behind the wheel of the Monte Carlo. Richmond police say two other suspects also piled in, and the car drove off.

The female victim followed in a borrowed minivan, and called police on her cell phone, Schuld said.

Officers took over the chase, which led them through the unincorporated Rollingwood neighborhood and on to Wilart Drive in Richmond”s Fairmede/Hilltop neighborhood, where the Monte Carlo lost control and plowed into a parked Ford Ranger on the 2600 block.

The occupants ran, and the officers chased the driver, Schuld said, repeatedly shouting for him to stop and to show his hands. The foot chase led up a grassy embankment and beyond, to an open field.

The officers closed on Bradley as he approached a chain-link fence. He stopped abruptly and turned with his hands at his midsection, prompting both officers to immediately fire.

Investigators did find a .40-caliber handgun inside the Monte Carlo. San Pablo police also arrested three underage suspects in connection with the carjacking Sunday and booked all of them into Juvenile Hall in Martinez. A sign posted on the door of Bradley”s family home asked for privacy.

Bradley became the second fleeing suspect to die during a police shooting in Richmond this year. The first came in September, when Pinole police chased a carjacked vehicle that crashed beyond city limits, on Atlas Road, and shot 20-year-old Levi Boynton Jr., after they say he fired at them.

Officer Perino also killed a combative suspect on Richmond streets in May 2006, shooting 35-year-old Melvin Hardnett as the suspect tried to wrestle away his partner”s handgun.

“I didn”t want him to kill” the other officer, Perino said during a coroner”s inquest that October. “No one there was going to help. If he had gotten that gun, you would have found two cops laying there.”

Staff writer Robert Salonga contributed to this article. Reach Karl Fischer at 510-262-2728. Follow him at Twitter.com/kfischer510.