Armed Suspect Fatally Shot at 5900 Allday November 16, 2009 - An armed suspect who pointed a gun in the direction of a Houston police officer was fatally shot at 5900 Allday about 9:25 p.m. on Saturday (Nov. 14).



The identity of the male suspect is pending verification by the Harris County Medical Examiner's Office. He sustained at least one gunshot wound and was pronounced dead at the scene.



The officer who discharged his duty weapon, Officer J.M. Crawford, was not injured. Officer Crawford, sworn in as an officer in June 1998, is assigned to the Gang Divsion Crime Reduction Unit.



HPD Homicide Division Sergeant R.D. Chandler and Senior Police Officer L.K. Lovelace reported:



HPD officers received information from FBI officials that several males were planning a home invasion robbery in the area of Allday at Sandspoint Drive. Officers began conducting surveillance in the area and observed a suspicious vehicle that matched the description of one of the vehicles they were searching for. When officers attempted to stop the vehicle, a white Cadillac, the driver (suspect) led police on a short vehicle pursuit. After the pursuit, the suspect attempted to exit the Cadillac while holding a firearm at the same time. The suspect turned in the direction of one of the officers and pointed the weapon in his direction. Officer Crawford, believing his life and safety were in danger, discharged his weapon at the suspect, striking him at least once. The officer immediately called for HFD paramedics to render aid to the suspect, however, he was pronounced dead at the scene. A male passenger in the fleeing vehicle was apprehended after a short foot pursuit. He is being questioned by investigators about events leading up to the incident.



As is customary in HPD officer-involved shooting incidents in the city limits, the case is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions and the Harris County District Attorney's Office.





JFC/VHS 11-16-09

Inc #166601609 For additional information, please contact the HPD Public Affairs Division at 713-308-3200 .

