BIRMINGHAM, Alabama -- A former Birmingham police officer was sentenced to 12 years in prison today for an off-duty wreck while speeding and drunk that killed a music minister traveling home from church, in a case the judge called a "tragedy for everyone involved."

James Kendrick, 37, was convicted in March of reckless manslaughter in the Nov. 18, 2009, death of Derric Rush. Rush, 35, was thrown from his convertible car and hit the pavement after Kendrick's vehicle struck it while traveling up to 120 mph on Interstate 20/59 near the Arkadelphia Road exit. Kendrick's blood alcohol level was .14-.17, well above the .08 legal limit.

Rush's relatives and supporters called for a maximum 20-year term. The victim's mother said afterward she was dissatisfied with the time imposed by Jefferson County Circuit Judge Tommy Nail.

"We already were sentenced on Nov. 18, 2009, to life without parole," said Paulette Rush. "The judge decided my son's life only was worth 12 years, 144 months. ... I find this very offensive."

Emotions ran deep on both sides during Wednesday's sentencing hearing. The courtroom was packed with supporters of Kendrick, including several Birmingham police officers, and with Rush's family and members of his church, Garywood Assembly of God in Hueytown.

Kendrick, who resigned from the police department after his arrest, nearly broke down in tears several times while he apologized to Rush's widow Peggy and asked for her forgiveness.

"I'm sorry for the decisions I made," Kendrick told Peggy Rush. "If I could just relive that day I would and I would make better choices. I ask God to fill the void in your life."

But the victim's widow said the case boiled down to choices made that night -- the choice her husband made to be with his family and at his church's Wednesday evening service, versus the choice Kendrick made to drink whiskey with a colleague, hang out at a strip club then speed down the highway.

"There are consequences for choices," Peggy Rush told Nail. "This wasn't an accident. It was a crime. It's a consequence of the way he was acting that night. It's his choices we're paying for. In this society, we punish this behavior with time in jail."