HILLSBORO, Ore. — The suspect who authorities say fatally wounded a bystander and led police on a car chase before being shot dead by officers was a 28-year-old suburban Portland resident, police said.

Police identified the shooter as Shawn Schumacher of Hillsboro late Saturday.

Earlier Saturday, police said Schumacher was driving his Honda Civic in Hillsboro when he opened fire and fatally wounded a passenger in another vehicle at an intersection. It remained unclear Sunday what happened at the intersection, and information from witnesses hasn't clarified the incident, Hillsboro Lt. Henry Reimann said.

But Reimann said it appeared that the gunman opened fire on a vehicle being driven by 56-year-old Danny K. Le Gore of Hillsboro as it was moving, pumping at least six rounds from a handgun into it.

"It appears that this victim had no connection to the suspect in this case, and it appears to be a random act of extreme violence," the police said in a statement.

Le Gore was rushed to the hospital, where he died.

Following the shooting, police officers chased the Honda Civic. The chase ended in the next town, Cornelius, where officers tried to slow down Schumacher by setting up spikes on the road. They failed, but Schumacher sped through the town and crashed into a van.

Officers approached Schumacher's vehicle.

"As they did, Mr. Schumacher emerged with a handgun in each hand and started shooting at them. Mr. Schumacher shot at least one bullet into a patrol car," Oregon State Police Sgt. Bob Ray said in a statement.

Officers, from the Washington County Sheriff's office and Cornelius police, shot and killed Schumacher.

A Cornelius resident, Robert Layton, told The Oregonian newspaper the driver was barefoot and wearing camouflage pants. Layton said the man ran less than 100 feet, firing at officers, before he was hit by their return fire.

Police searched Schumacher's residence after the shooting and found evidence of a lab for Mescaline, a hallucinogen drug. But police says it's not known if Schumacher was under the influence of drugs when the shooting happened. A Medical Examiner's toxicology exam will performed later.

Officers involved in the shooting have been put on administrative leave, which is standard procedure.