By Fred Childers – bio|email

SHREVEPORT, LA (KSLA) – "That guy walked in and fired a shot and said everybody get on the floor," said Johnny Vincent, a bank customer who witnessed a robbery.

He considers himself lucky to be alive after witnessing the beginning of a shooting spree that included a bank robbery and shootout, that left the suspect dead, and a police detective wounded.

"Man, I'm still nervous," said Vincent as his hands shook.

The bank robbery set off a flurry of police activity all over the city.

"Within minutes of the robbery we were out looking for the suspect," said Shreveport Police Chief, Henry Whitehorn.

They found the suspect, who remains unidentified tonight on Mansfield Road and Midway.

And what happened next terrified workers at nearby businesses.

"Immediately began firing at the officer, the officer did return fire," said Chief Whitehorn.

"It was a lot of shooting," said Terry Lewis a nearby employee.

"And all kind of bullets started ringing through the shed, so we started running for shelter," said Russell White, an employee of a nearby lumber yard.

SPD tells us the suspect was riding his motorcycle down Mansfield Road but tried to get off the motorcycle when he realized he was being pursued by Shreveport Detective, Jack Miller.



Police say that's when he opened fire on the detective, and Miller then returned fire and hit the suspect several times in the upper torso.

"Like it went off 8 or 9 times, boom, boom, boom", said White.

"It got quiet just for a second and it seemed like maybe another cop pulled up and then there was another short round of shooting," said Lewis.

Police confirmed a second officer was involved in the shooting, however only one was shot.

The suspect, who later died at the hospital, appeared to be on a mission that he wasn't willing to concede.

"I don't know what would cause the man to do what he did," said Lewis.

The reason appears to be money.

"…bag of money up there and a bag of money down there," said Fred Wills, a witness to the shooting.

But the big questions many are asking tonight is why today and why was this money worth dying or trying to kill for?

©2009 KSLA-TV. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.