







A 31-year-old Teesto, Ariz., man was shot and killed by Navajo Nation police after he threatened the life of an 8-month-old infant Nov. 28.

The shooting occurred about 3:30 a.m. after police received a report of domestic violence at the home of Sylvanis Oso. The caller said someone was intoxicated and had an infant with him.

When police arrived at the scene, Oso refused to open the door and the officers had to force their way in. When they did, they discovered Oso with the infant and a knife to his neck, threatening to commit suicide. He then yelled at police to "go ahead and shoot me."

Police tried to talk Oso down but when he turned to the baby, one officer, whose name was not released, shot him in the chest.

Police immediately began CPR on him and EMTs arrived within minutes but Oso died despite their efforts.

St. Michaels man killed

Tribal police are also investigating a homicide in St. Michaels, Ariz., on Nov. 28.

According to the police report, Jordan Tyler Tabaha, 19, of St. Michaels, went to a home on Mission Road about 3 a.m. and had a confrontation with Herman Blackgoat, 55, also of St. Michaels.

Blackgoat was pacing up and down throughout the house when, according to a witness, Tabaha grabbed a knife from the kitchen and stabbed the older man several times in the chest and neck. Tabaha then fled the scene, the witness said.

Blackgoat was pronounced dead at 5:02 a.m.

Tribal police said they were still at the scene when Tabaha returned and uttered the words, "I did it, fool," and stated that he was drunk. Police arrested him on murder charges.

Rollover kills Shonto teen

A one-vehicle rollover resulted in the death of an 18-year-old Shonto, Ariz., woman on Nov. 29.

Police gave no details of what caused the rollover but reported that Brittany Alyssa Laughter died about 4 a.m. when the vehicle she was driving rolled over on State Route 98 near Inscription House, Ariz.

She was the sole occupant and was ejected from the vehicle during the accident, police said.

Sanders man run over

A Sanders, Ariz., man died Nov. 28 after being hit by two vehicles near the Port of Entry on Interstate 40.

Police said Brian Turner, a semi-trailer truck driver, ran up to the Port of Entry offices saying that he had accidentally run over a man who was lying on the inner traffic lane leading into the facility.

The man was later identified as Philip Denetso, 58.

Denetso was apparently standing up with his hands spread when he was struck by an SUV. As he lay on the ground, he was run over by Turner, who told police he didn't see Denetso until after he had run over him.

Kayenta man faces weapons charge

Melvin Chief, 32, of Kayenta, is facing a charge of possessing a deadly weapon in connection with a domestic violence situation Nov. 28.

Tribal police got a report of domestic violence between Chief and his wife allegedly occurring in the Kayenta Clinic parking lot.

By the time police arrived, Chief had fled the scene, threatening to commit suicide.

As police looked for him in a wooded area near the clinic, Chief fired a shot at his own head and missed, at which time the officers persuaded him to give up his gun. No one was injured.

Accident claims Moab man

Details are sketchy but tribal police said a Moab, Utah, man, identified as Robert William Shupe, 42, died in a motorcycle accident Nov. 20.

The accident occurred about 5:45 a.m. on Navajo Route 6 near Indian Wells, Ariz.

Sex offender gets 15 months for failure to register

PHOENIX - Johnny Lewis Nosie, 42, of Whiteriver, Ariz., was sentenced Nov. 23 to 15 months in federal prison, to be followed by eight years of supervised release, after pleading guilty Aug. 19 to failing to register as a convicted sex offender, according to the U.S. attorney's office.

Nosie was convicted of abusive sexual contact on October 27, 2004, and was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release. He was ordered to register as a sex offender, as required by law, following his release from prison.

The investigation was conducted by the U.S. Marshals Service.

Woman sentenced for theft from a tribal government

PHOENIX - Evelyn James, 54, of Tuba City, a tribal council member of the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe in Arizona, was sentenced to two years in federal prison and fined $75,000 for making false statements, theft from a tribal government receiving federal funds and money laundering, according to the U.S. attorney's office.

In pleading guilty, she admitted to stealing almost $300,000 in tribal funds. James must self-surrender by Jan. 15, 2010, to begin serving her sentence.

James intermittently served as the president of the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe and in that capacity, completed, signed and submitted false statements and records to obtain funds for the tribe from the Community Oriented Policing Services program. Administered through the Department of Justice, COPS provides financial assistance to eligible police departments to help improve community police efforts.

James submitted falsified accountings in which she asked for reimbursement from the COPS program for expenditures that were never made by the tribe. The false submissions indicated that the tribe hired and paid three police officers when no peace officers were ever hired, trained or employed.

Through James's false submissions, the tribe wrongfully received approximately $224,997 in grant funds from the COPS program. Beginning in 2005, James wrote checks to herself from money drawn on the tribal bank account. During 2005, James stole approximately $300,000 in tribal funds in this fashion.

The investigation was conducted by the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General, the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

U.S. attorney announces key appointments

PHOENIX - Dennis K. Burke, U.S. Attorney for the District of Arizona and a member of the Department of Justice Native American Issues Subcommittee, announced the appointment of experienced prosecutors to fill key leadership roles in Indian Country areas, according to the U.S. attorney's office.

John Tuchi, who most recently served as chief of the Criminal Division, has assumed the role of senior litigation counsel and the district's tribal liaison. Tuchi will lead the Indian Country team as well as conducting training, assisting in major investigations and trials and acting as a mentor to junior assistant U.S. attorneys.

Tuchi will be assisted by Marnie Hodahkwen who will serve as deputy tribal liaison. Hodahkwen fulfilled the role of tribal advisor for former Governor Napolitano's office and has extensive experience working with Arizona tribes.

Hodahkwen, along with U.S. Attorney Burke and Acting Criminal Chief Joseph Lodge, recently participated in the Department of Justice-lead Tribal Nations Listening Session on public safety and law enforcement in Minneapolis.

In addition, Sharon Sexton has been named supervisor for the Violent Crime and Indian Country Section. Sexton has experience in handling a variety of Indian Country cases in the U.S. attorney's office.

Back to top ^

