HUNTSVILLE, AL - On Nov. 30, 24-year-old Robert Daniel Webb was shot and killed by Huntsville police after he came toward officers with two knives.

Webb's mother said she called police after Webb pushed her down inside their home on Webster Road.

"I thought we could call the police for help," said his mother, who asked that her name not be used. "I really thought they would just subdue him and get him help."

After the two officers who responded to the call entered the home, Webb came toward them with two butcher knives, police said. The two officers fired multiple shots, police said, killing Webb as his family stood outside the home.

The case is being reviewed by an internal review board, which is mandatory following any discharge of a firearm or any time injury or death occurs, according to Huntsville police policy.

Webb's mother said she told police when they arrived that he had been drinking but that he'd never been violent toward her.

"Something was wrong with him," she said. "I was trying to help him."

It is the department's policy to match the force of a weapon, meaning if someone is coming toward an officer using a deadly weapon, an officer is to counter that with a deadly weapon.

Huntsville police Sgt. Mark Roberts, spokesman for the department, couldn't comment on the case because it is under review.

Some have asked why stun guns were not used to subdue Webb. Roberts said Huntsville police do not carry stun guns.

The Madison County Sheriff's Office patrol division, along with other specific officers, do carry stun guns. It is up to the officer whether to use a stun gun or firearm, Investigator Brent Patterson said.

In the sheriff's office policy, a stun gun can be used in three situations - defensive resistance, passive resistance and active aggression, Patterson said. None of those situations involve the subject having a lethal weapon, he said.

"If someone is coming at one of our officers with a deadly force weapon, they can use a weapon with deadly force in return," he said.

Patterson said each situation is different and up to the individual officer on the scene.

"It depends as to what degree an officer is in fear for his or her life," he said.

Many stun-gun manufacturers warn about using the weapon on people in a state of "excited delirium," because it could either kill them or not work.

Still, Webb's mother said she wonders whether the police used excessive force.

It isn't clear how many times he was shot by police, though his mother says she saw eight bullet wounds on his body.

Madison County Coroner Bobby Berryhill said he couldn't release the information until the complete autopsy results come back, which could take several months.