A San Antonio police officer suffered a severe face laceration late Friday morning before fending off his attacker by shooting at him, striking him three times, authorities said.

Loc Quang Ta, 48, later died at University Hospital.

Officer Keith Whitehead, a 15-year veteran of the San Antonio Police Department, also was taken to an area hospital, where he was listed in good condition Friday afternoon, according to police.

Whitehead, 42, will be placed on administrative duty pending an investigation into the shooting - standard procedure in officer-involved shootings, police said.

It was SAPD's 19th officer-involved shooting this year.

Police Chief William McManus said Whitehead was attacked at about 11:00 a.m. Friday when he responded to a domestic disturbance call in the 14800 block of Bluemist Pass, near Jones Maltsberger Road and Thousand Oaks Drive, north of the San Antonio International Airport.

Neighbors called police after Ta began fighting with his wife, according to authorities. It wasn't immediately clear what led to the argument.

When police arrived, Ta's brother was outside. He told officers the couple had been arguing, a police news release said.

Ta and his wife were the only people inside the home at the time of the shooting, police said.

As the officer walked into the house, Ta was wielding a meat cleaver and advanced toward the officer, the news release said.

Whitehead drew his service weapon and ordered the man to drop the weapon, but Ta continued to advance and threw the meat cleaver at the officer, striking him in the face, it stated.

McManus said the officer then fired multiple shots at Ta, hitting him three times in the upper and lower torso.

The chief said Ta's wife had locked herself in a closet and was screaming when the officer entered the home. McManus said the incident highlights how dangerous domestic disturbance situations can be, "because emotions run high."

Neighbors said the couple had lived on their block for several years. They described the couple as friendly.

"In the summertime, he sits outside and makes fried rice for the neighborhood kids," said Casey Magnuson, who lives down the block. "This type of thing happens all over the place, but still nobody expects it to happen in their neighborhood."