The Times Square shooting at the Marriott Marquis hotel has put CD peddlers in the spotlight, some of whom, cops say, use music as a ruse for shakedowns and theft. (Watts/News)

Bullets whizzed through Times Square Thursday when a street hustler armed with a fearsome MAC-10 lost a gunfight with a veteran cop as tourists and shoppers screamed and dove for cover.

A hotel driveway at the Crossroads of the World was transformed into a wild shooting gallery at 11:15 a.m., prompting sightseers to turn their cameras from the bright lights to the bloodshed on Broadway.

Advertisement

Killed in a burst of gunfire was Raymond Martinez, 25, of the Bronx, who just moments before the shooting was trying to rip off tourists with a street scam involving illegal DVDs and CDs, cops said.

Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said it was a miracle no innocent bystanders were caught in the crossfire that erupted in the most bustling part of the city. "We're lucky that ...the officer was prudent and no one else was in the immediate area," Kelly said.

Advertisement

In the aftermath of the violence, cops shuddered to think how much worse the incident could have been when they found a Virginia gun shop's business card on Martinez's body with an ominous handwritten note on the back.

"I just finished watching 'The Last Dragon,'" the note read. "I feel sorry for a cop if he think [sic] I'm getting into his paddy wagon."

It was unclear if Martinez, an aspiring rapper who dubbed himself Ready, wrote the note, but the message was in keeping with the expletive-laced, anti-cop lyrics he and his group, Square Free, posted on YouTube.

In one video posted earlier this year, Martinez, who was wanted in a Bronx assault and had an outstanding warrant in a disorderly conduct case, and his crew are seen being booted out of Times Square by police.

In another video, Martinez seems to rap an eerie premonition of his death, freestyling about "police lines," "multiple [gun] clips" and weapons that "jam on me."

Stunned witnesses watched in horror as Martinez's lyrics played out in real life.

He pulled the stolen semi-automatic murder machine from inside his coat and whirled around in a deadly faceoff with plainclothes Sgt. Christopher Newsom, 41.

Newsom, a 17-year NYPD veteran, had confronted Martinez and his brother, Oliver, 28, in front of the MTV studios on Broadway between W. 44th and 45th Sts. moments earlier.

Advertisement

The pair was spotted scamming tourists into buying CDs by writing their names on the disks and demanding money, officials said. When asked to show a tax stamp required of legitimate street peddlers, Raymond Martinez bolted north on Broadway, zigzagging through the crowds.

Last stand

He turned onto 45th St. and was cornered in the covered breezeway of the 1,900-room Marriott Marquis Hotel. Martinez spun and fired two shots at Newsom, who was wearing a bulletproof vest, before his gun jammed, police said.

Newsom, who had never fired his service weapon in the line of duty, crossed his left arm over his heart for added protection and squeezed off four rounds from about 7 feet away, cops said.

Martinez was hit at least three times, including once in the chest and arm, police said. Despite being gravely wounded, the gunman continued to fight as Newsom moved closer and yelled, "Stop! Stop! Show me your hands!"

"He was on the ground and he was still resisting," said British tourist John Grisewood, 65.

Advertisement

Martinez, who had been summonsed for illegal peddling in the same location earlier this year, was taken to St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where he was pronounced dead.

The MAC-10 recovered from the scene had a 30-bullet magazine still loaded with 27 bullets.

Kelly said the shooting appeared to be within department guidelines.

Sources said Martinez had a bag of marijuana on him and number of business cards from gun shops, including the one with the threatening note on it from Gary's Guns & Transfers in Manakin-Sabot, Va., a suburb of Richmond.

Cops said the MAC-10 was stolen in Richmond Oct. 28.

Gary Lewis, owner of Gary's Guns, said Martinez's name did not ring a bell, and insisted his shop did not deal MAC-10s. "He may have picked my card up from a gun show or something," Lewis said.

Advertisement

Caught on tape

Video surveillance cameras at the Marriott captured part of the shootout, including showing Newsom taking a defensive stance as he aimed and fired, sources said.

"Remarkable," one police official who viewed the footage said of Newsom's grace under fire.

One of Martinez's shots shattered the front window of the Broadway Baby gift shop on the ground-floor of the Marriott.

"We jumped behind the counter to wait until it stopped," said shop owner, Yoni Erlich, 23.

Erlich said the bullet that entered his store penetrated a souvenir book from the musical "Wicked" and lodged in a baseball commemorating the Yankees' World Series victory.

Advertisement

Newsom said nothing as six NYPD colleagues escorted him into his Queens apartment building last night.

Martinez's friends and relatives said he dreamed of being on Times Square billboards like Jay-Z and Diddy. The closest he got was a photo with the Rev. Al Sharpton taken in Times Square that he posted on his MySpace page.

"I don't know what happened. My brother is gone," Martinez's brother, Oliver, 28, told the Daily News after being questioned at the Midtown South Precinct. "He was a good guy. He was not evil."