ANAHEIM – A man shot to death by Anaheim police outside a Wal-Mart on Friday was identified today as Caesar Ray Cruz, 35, of Fullerton.

Cruz was fatally shot by police Friday afternoon in the parking lot of a Wal-Mart in the Anaheim Plaza shopping center, on Euclid Street near the I-5 freeway.

Roughly 50 of his family and friends gathered at the lot today at 4 p.m. to hold a vigil in his memory.

Cruz’s wife and other family members, who spoke out at the vigil, say they are angry with the authorities’ handling of the situation.

“I just don’t think it’s right that they killed my dad,” said Cisco Cruz, 10, one of Ceasar Cruz’s five children. “I just want the police to know that we won’t stop until we get answers. They brought a lot of tears to us when they killed him. He just wanted us to be safe, he just wanted us to have a good, normal life.”

Police said they were tipped that a former parolee was seen driving around with a handgun. Undercover officers, including gang investigators, received information that the former parolee was in a green Chevrolet, Anaheim Police Sgt. Rick Martinez said.

According to court records, Cruz was convicted in 2002 of a single count of drug possession with intent to sell, for which he was given 240 days in jail and three years probation, which ended five years ago.

His other only violation in Orange County was a dismissed infraction for having the radio too loud.

Caesar Cruz’s mother, Theresa Smith, said her son had been laid off from a telecommunications agency, but he had worked a series of jobs in warehouses or involving physical labor.

“Whatever it took to take care of his family,” said his wife, Jennifer Cruz.

All of the family members say they are angry that they haven’t been allowed to see Ceasar Cruz’s body, either at the hospital or morgue.

Smith said Caesar Cruz was on his way to pick up his children from school when the shooting happened.

On Friday, unmarked units were unable to get the man to pull over on nearby back-streets, so a marked police unit was called in, Martinez said.

Officers followed the green SUV to the Wal-Mart parking lot

The driver briefly stopped, causing officers to get out of their cars, and then rapidly accelerated down the parking aisle, Martinez said.

Police units followed the car, boxing it in further down the parking aisle.

Four or five officers opened fire at the driver, who was still inside the vehicle, Martinez said. At 3:22 p.m., the broadcast of a shooting went out over police radios.

“As to whether he shot at us, I don’t know. We shot at him,” Martinez said.

Police found a handgun in the Chevrolet, Martinez said.

The man was taken to a hospital in critical condition and died within the hour, Martinez said.

Investigators cordoned part of the parking lot, but Wal-Mart remained open for business.

Noreen Sooter, 29, an Anaheim resident, said she was walking back to her car after buying gift certificates when the shooting occurred.

The driver of the car pulled into the parking lot followed by a police car with lights blazing and sirens blaring, Sooter said.

The driver took a quick left turn down a row of parked cars, moving out of her line of sight, Sooter said.

Sooter said she couldn’t see what happened next but heard “a lot” of shots fired.

“We just heard the gunshots,” Sooter said. “It was the scariest thing.”