On December 15, in the days after Denver Police Officer Kevin Ford shot and killed Nicholas Alvarado Morales, a Mexican national in the U.S. illegally, reports surfaced suggesting that cops kicked and beat the severely wounded man while taking him into custody.

These assertions are addressed tangentially in Denver DA Mitch Morrissey's letter to DPD chief Gerry Whitman about the shooting. However, the focus is on whether or not Ford was justified in firing on Morales -- and Morrissey concludes that he was.

The following account appears in a section entitled "Statement of Facts:"

The suspect, later identified as Nicholas Alvarado Morales ("Morales"), was walking westbound on the sidewalk on the north side of West Louisiana Avenue with both hands in his black-hoody pockets. As Morales crossed Patton Court, Officer Ford turned left in the intersection of South Patton Court to pull in behind Morales, intending to exit his marked patrol car to contact him. Officer Ford made this tactical move in order to place himself and the left side of his patrol car between Morales and Cadet Martinez, because he believed Morales was armed with a firearm. Cadet Martinez was on her mandatory monthly ride along with a Denver police officer as part of the Denver Police Cadet Program.

As Officer Ford stopped his Denver Police patrol car northbound in the intersection, Morales stopped and turned facing Officer Ford and Cadet Martinez. Officer Ford put his hand on his service pistol, but did not draw it. As Officer Ford was exiting his patrol car, he saw Morales pull a pistol with his right hand from his right-hoody pocket, holding the pistol close to his body as he leveled the barrel in the direction of Officer Ford and Cadet Martinez. Officer Ford drew his service pistol and started to move quickly toward the back of his patrol car for cover. Cadet Martinez reacted to Morales' deadly threat by immediately exiting the passenger door and seeking cover behind the back tire.

Officer Ford raised his service pistol at Morales and repeatedly ordered Morales to drop the gun. Rather than dropping the firearm as commanded by Officer Ford, Morales began extending his arm and raising the firearm up toward eye level -- directly at Officer Ford. Officer Ford believed Morales was going to shoot him. He responded by firing five shots at Morales. Morales turned away as he fell to the pavement. Morales still had the firearm in his right hand. Morales rolled over on his back, kicking his feet as if he was trying to get up. At some point Morales' gun fell from his hand to the pavement. Officer Ford repeatedly ordered him to stay down. Morales did so at that time.

When Officer Garber heard Officer Ford's radio transmission that he was "With one," he accelerated westbound on West Louisiana Avenue to South Patton Court. As he pulled up to the intersection and was beginning to exit his patrol car, he heard multiple shots. He drew his service pistol as he exited. He could only see Officer Ford's upper body on the other side of Officer Ford's patrol car. He could see smoke from the gunshots. He did not know who had fired or if anyone had been shot. He saw Cadet Martinez crouched by the rear tire for cover. He immediately ran around the front of Officer Ford's patrol car to cover Morales and assist Officer Ford in taking him into custody. He saw a gun on the pavement near Morales. When Officer Ford saw Officer Garber was present to cover, dispatch was radioed, "Shots fired -- suspect down." It was 12:07:19 a.m. The two officers approached Morales with weapons drawn. Morales' firearm was still on the pavement near his head. Officer Garber kicked the weapon away from Morales' reach.

Officer Garber provided armed cover while Officer Ford holstered his service pistol and took out his handcuffs. When Officer Ford put a cuff on one wrist, Morales swung his other arm preventing completion of the cuffing. The officers repeatedly ordered Morales to "stop resisting" as they struggled to control him. Officer Garber still had his service pistol in his right hand. He only had his left hand available to gain control. Officer Ford had holstered his service pistol. Morales had not been patted down and it was unknown if he had any other weapons. Morales continued aggressively resisting efforts to handcuff him. The officers struggled in an attempt to gain control of Morales arms. Officer Garber told investigators he struck Morales in the area of his upper body and head with his service pistol, which was still in his right hand, in an effort to gain control.

At this time, Officer Brian Mudloff and Jeff DiManna arrived at the scene in separate patrol cars. Officer Mudloff saw the officers wrestling to control Morales. Morales was on his stomach actively resisting the officers. He saw two handguns on the ground in the area of Morales head. Officer DiManna pushed the firearm nearest Morales away from him to the west. The officers were then able to secure Morales' arms and handcuff him. After being cuffed, Morales continued to kick his legs at the officers.

Officers Mudloff and DiManna held his legs down until paramedics arrived. Twenty-one seconds after radioing, "Shots fired--suspect down," Officer Ford radioed, "Suspect in custody -- officer involved." It was 12:07:40 a.m. (This indicated the suspect was in custody and it was an officer-involved shooting.) Twelve seconds later, at 12:07:52 a.m., Officer Ford radioed, "Party shot." (This indicated confirmation that the suspect had, in fact, received a gun-shot wound.) Paramedics responded and placed Morales in the ambulance with officer assistance. Officer Mudloff rode with the treating paramedics to Denver Health Medical Center. Morales was pronounced dead at 12:37 a.m. by Dr. Peter Pryor.