UPDATED MEDIA RELEASE (12/18/09)

An autopsy performed Friday (December 18) has determined that Daniel Heidt died of a gunshot wound to the upper torso. Toxicology results are pending.

Heidt was shot Wednesday (December 16) during a struggle for his handgun after a standoff in lower Puna.

Police ask that anyone with information on this incident call Lieutenant Mitch Kanehailua 961-2252 or the Police Department’s non-emergency line at 935-3311.

Police are particularly interested in speaking to any motorist who drove past the Kehena Beach Estates subdivision on Highway 137 between 2 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. on December 16.

Tipsters who prefer to remain anonymous may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300 in Hilo or 329-8181 in Kona. All Crime Stoppers information is kept confidential.

UPDATED: 6 p.m. Thursday, Dec. 17

Big Island police have identified the man who was shot Wednesday following a standoff with police as 60-year-old Daniel Heidt of Kehena.

An investigation revealed Heidt was the owner of the house he barricaded himself inside and was home alone during the incident.

Police reported Heidt discharged a firearm numerous times and threatened police with a gun, following a standoff of nearly 10 hours.

Puna patrol officers initially responded to a 2:52 a.m. report Wednesday of shots being fired from within a home in the Kehena Beach Estates subdivision in lower Puna. As they approached the house, responding officers confirmed numerous additional shots being fired. They secured the perimeter of the property, where the man had barricaded himself inside the house.

The Police Department’s Special Response Team (SRT) was notified at 4 a.m. and took over the scene at 6:51 a.m.

Shortly after 8 a.m., Highway 137 was closed in both directions between the 19- and 20-mile markers. To ensure the safety of innocent bystanders and neighbors, police evacuated the immediate area. Because gunshots were still being fired from inside the house, some civilians were taken to safety in the SRT’s armored “Bearcat” vehicle. Highway 137 remained closed until nearly 4 p.m.

The SRT’s Crisis Negotiations Team began negotiating with the barricaded man but were unable to maintain a dialogue because of his unwillingness to participate. Throughout the incident, shots continued to be heard from inside.

Shortly after 1 p.m., the barricaded man exited the house brandishing a machete. As officers attempted to get him to peacefully surrender, he pulled out a concealed firearm. During a struggle for control of the weapon, shots were fired, including one from the man’s gun. Specific details are still under investigation.

Emergency response personnel at the scene treated the man for injuries sustained in the shooting. He died a short time later.

Police recovered the machete and a .22 caliber revolver.

An autopsy has been scheduled for Friday (Dec. 18) to determine the exact cause of death.

Detectives from the Area I Criminal Investigations Section are continuing criminal investigations into the gunman’s actions and the officers’ response. In addition, the Internal Affairs Division is conducting an administrative investigation.

As is standard with any police-involved shooting, the officers directly involved in the shooting have been placed on paid administrative leave.

“While I am saddened by the loss of human life,” Chief Harry Kubojiri said, “preliminary reports indicate that the officers involved were justified in their actions and that they acted reasonably given the circumstances.”

—

A 60-year-old Puna man who discharged a firearm numerous times and threatened police with a gun was shot and killed Wednesday (Dec. 16) following a standoff of nearly 10 hours.

Puna patrol officers initially responded to a 2:52 a.m. report of shots being fired from within a home in the Kehena Beach Estates subdivision in lower Puna.

As they approached the house, responding officers confirmed numerous additional shots being fired. They secured the perimeter of the property.

The Police Department’s Special Response Team (SRT) was notified at 4 a.m. and took over the scene at 6:51 a.m.

Shortly after 8 a.m., Highway 137 was closed between the 19- and 20-mile markers and residents were evacuated.

As part of the SRT response, the Crisis Negotiations Team began talking with the man, who had barricaded himself inside the house.

Shortly after 1 p.m., the man exited the house. A struggle ensued, at which point the man was shot. Details of the incident are still being investigated.

Emergency response personnel at the scene treated the man for injuries sustained in the shooting. He died a short time later.

Police are withholding the man’s name pending notification of his family.

Chief Harry Kubojiri said although this is an unfortunate incident, he is grateful no neighbors or emergency responders were seriously injured.

As is standard practice in any police-involved shooting, the department’s Area I Criminal Investigations Section will conduct a investigation into the shooting and the Internal Affairs Division will conduct an administrative investigation.

Share this: Facebook

Twitter

Pinterest

Reddit

Tumblr

LinkedIn

Print

Email

More

Pocket

