The scene of the police-involved shooting in the 5500 block of West Henderson Street. (Jeremy Gorner/ Chicago Tribune)

Chicago police shot and killed a man who pointed a gun at them on the Northwest Side in one of two police-involved shootings reported in the city overnight.

In the second instance, police said they wounded a fleeing suspect during a foot chase on the West Side. The suspect had pointed a gun at pursuing officers, police said.

Advertisement

No officer was hurt in either incident.

The first shooting happened shortly before 11 p.m. Monday at a residence in the 5500 block of West Henderson Street.

Advertisement

Responding to a call of a person with a gun, Jefferson Park District officers were told by the landlord that one of her tenants pointed a gun at her, police said.

The officers were then confronted by a man with a handgun. The officers told him they were Chicago police officers and ordered him to drop the weapon.

"The [suspect] refused to comply and pointed the gun in the direction of the officers," police said in a statement. "As a result of this action, the officers discharged their weapons, striking and fatally wounding the suspect."

The suspect was identified as 30-year-old Andriy Zayzev, according to a spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner's office. His gun was confiscated.

The second police-involved shooting happened about 12:45 a.m. in the 3800 block of West Chicago Avenue, with the incident beginning near an alley south of Chicago and Springfield avenues.

Police said Harrison District officers were on routine patrol when they were flagged down by people who said they had been shot at by occupants of a green van.

The officers spotted a vehicle matching that description and followed it into the alley. The driver, armed with a handgun, got out and began running with police in pursuit. During the chase, the suspect turned and aimed his weapon at the officers, who fired and struck him, police said.

The suspect was able to continue running but was taken into custody in the 800 block of North Springfield, police said. He was taken to an area hospital, but his condition wasn't available.

Advertisement

The Independent Police Review Authority, which probes shootings involving Chicago police officers, was investigating both incidents, according to an IPRA spokesman.

--Jeremy Gorner