One man is dead and another is in custody after an incident that occurred when Tallassee Police officers attempted to serve a warrant Tuesday afternoon at a public housing complex.

Police did not release the name of the victim, but residents identified him as Michael McIntyre.

“Around noon, several officers responded to this area, which is referred to as a Housing Authority property, in an attempt to serve an arrest warrant for attempted murder on an individual,” said Tallassee Police Chief Jimmy Rodgers. “When officers made contact at the residence, a totally separate individual made contact with them at the door.”

When police attempted to identify the secondary individual, Rodgers says he “bolted and ran.”

“Several officers pursued him while other officers remained at the residence, taking the initial individual they intended to serve with a warrant into custody without incident,” Rodgers said.

Rodgers identified that man as Marquese Griffin, 24, of Tallassee.

“Police officers that continued to pursue the first individual approximately 150 yards behind the housing property, found that he was in possession of a firearm, and at this time it is believed that he pointed the firearm at one of the officers, causing the officer to respond appropriately,” Rodgers said. “An attempt was made to Taser the individual, but the device did not work as intended because of the layers of clothing the suspect was wearing.”

The suspect, who Rodgers described as a 20-year-old black male, died after being shot multiple times by the officer.

“I heard at least five gunshots,” said Sandra Terrell, who lives in one the units a few doors from where officers served their warrant.

Tensions ran high among residents in the community in the moments after the incident. Ward 3 Tallassee City Councilman Charles Blalock was quick to urge calm.

“What took place today was something we’re very unaccustomed to in this area,” Blalock said. “I want to appeal to those in the area not to try and take the law into their own hands, but to simply wait patiently on the results of the investigation.”

The Alabama Bureau of Investigation is investigating the incident, which is the protocol in situations in which a law enforcement officer is involved in a shooting, Rodgers said.

Law enforcement from the Eclectic Police Department, the Elmore County Sheriff’s Department and Alabama State Troopers were also on the scene.