Theodore Kowalzek had run-ins with the law, but his family said a police standoff that ended in his death was excessive and could have been prevented.

The Ham Lake man was found dead Thursday morning in his home at 17717 Concord Drive N.E., more than 15 hours after a first gunshot was fired and the standoff began.

“They had over 150 cops there, (a perimeter) built up around the property … all that for a 70-year-old man who has health conditions,” daughter Missy Kowalzek said.

Police were investigating the incident that started Wednesday afternoon when officers escorted former tenants onto Kowalzek’s land to retrieve a car. Officers heard gunfire, and the standoff began. It ended with Kowalzek’s death.

As investigators remain tight-lipped about the standoff, Kowalzek’s family called for more information, including how he died.

Authorities said they returned fire after Kowalzek began shooting when a SWAT team entered the home, but Missy Kowalzek said officials told family members her father “took his own life.”

However, she said, “he wouldn’t take his own life. That’s not the kind of man he was.”

Anoka County sheriff’s officials did not say whether Kowalzek was struck by their gunfire. A sheriff’s office police dog named Rocky, a 7-year-old Belgian Malinois, was killed in the exchange of gunfire.

Authorities haven’t officially identified the dead man. The Anoka County medical examiner was expected to release the formal identification and cause of death.

Family and neighbors, though, said it was Kowalzek, a father of eight who lived alone.

The incident began about 4:30 p.m. Wednesday.

“(There was a) male inside the house saying he would shoot them if they tried to get the other car,” Anoka County sheriff’s Capt. Dave Jenkins said.

A deputy escorted the former tenants to the home, “and all of a sudden there was a gunshot,” Jenkins said.

The former tenants were escorted from the scene, a police perimeter was set up, and the Anoka County sheriff’s office SWAT team was called in.

The sheriff’s office said that after negotiations failed, the SWAT team fired tear gas into the home. Despite further negotiations, the occupant still refused to surrender.

A SWAT team and the police dog were sent in, the sheriff’s office said. When the man inside opened fire, killing the dog, a SWAT member returned fire and the team retreated from the home.

Missy Kowalzek said family members arrived at the scene but were not allowed to contact her father. They couldn’t approach the house because authorities feared he might shoot someone, and the phone was blocked so he could not be reached, she said.

“If they had been allowed to talk to my dad, it would have made a huge difference,” she said.

Her father was known to local police, she said, and he had made it known he didn’t want them on his property.

Court records show that since 1987, Theodore Kowalzek had been in court more than a dozen times, facing charges involving multiple allegations of drunken driving and other motor vehicle offenses, illegal burning, trespassing, damage to property and assault.

“My dad was a drinker … he never set out to hurt anybody, but Anoka County has had it out for him for 40 years. They shot at my dad’s house for no reason,” she said.

She said she intends to seek legal action against the sheriff’s office and the former tenants who were involved.

Next-door neighbor Aaron Livingood said he hadn’t had any problems with Kowalzek. He called him called “a nice old man.”

“He was a good neighbor — always willing to lend a hand,” said Livingood. “This was totally out of left field.”

Andy Rathbun contributed to this report. Elizabeth Mohr can be reached at 651-228-5162.