Waco police released the names of the two officers who fatally shot Aaron Jay Harvey, 47, of White Settlement, Texas, after a high-speed chase early Saturday that ended with Harvey reportedly crashing his car and running away while pointing a gun at the officers before being shot.

Steve Anderson, spokesman for the Waco Police Department, said Joel Hesterman, 35, and Chase McAninch, 24, were the officers involved in Harvey’s shooting. Hesterman was hired by the Waco Police Department in July 2008 after seven years at another police department. McAninch was hired in July 2009 as a new police officer.

The preliminary autopsy also was returned to Justice of the Peace Billy Martin and revealed very little, citing “multiple gunshot wounds” as Harvey’s cause of

death. The report did not state how many times Harvey was shot or where on his body.

The two officers are on paid administrative leave while an investigation is conducted.

Anderson said all information gleaned from the investigation, including the dashboard camera video from the officers’ car, will be turned over to the district attorney’s office, which reviews police shooting investigations as a matter of course.

“Hopefully, once this is presented to the district attorney’s office and then upon being presented to the grand jury, obviously we hope that the evidence will absolve these officers of any wrongdoing,” Anderson said.

Previously, Anderson has said that for Hesterman and McAninch to not fire at Harvey, with Harvey pointing a gun at them multiple times, would be “almost suicidal.”

“Anytime a situation comes up where an officer is dealing with a threat to his or her life, it is very much in his or her power to respond by shooting their weapon to stop the threat,” Anderson said. “It would be almost suicidal for an officer to just stand there and wait for a suspect to shoot at them.”

Police responded to a report that someone was breaking into vehicles near the 1200 block of North 62nd Street at about 1:30 a.m. Saturday. Harvey’s Chevrolet Blazer was spotted a few minutes later at Bosque Boulevard and Rambler Drive, and officers chased him until he crashed at the intersection of Wooded Acres and Cobbs drives, police said.

At that point, Harvey ran from his wrecked car and pointed his gun at the officers, who ordered him to drop the gun, police said. When Harvey refused, he was shot, but he again pointed the gun at the officers, who again shot him, police said.

Harvey was on parole after his 2008 release from prison after serving 20 years of a 99-year sentence as a habitual burglary offender. He was arrested after breaking into the home of former Baylor University head football coach Grant Teaff.

757-5721

This is body copy for the info box. This is body copy for the info box.

Poynter Agate Cond 8.5/10.5 squeezed to 92