SANTA ANA – The family of a 47-year-old parolee who was fatally shot by police earlier this week is looking for answers to the many questions it has about the killing.

Anthony Martin Del Castillo from Santa Ana, died at the hospital Monday following a confrontation with officers who were investigating a possible burglary in an industrial area, Santa Ana police Cpl. Anthony Bertagna said.

Del Castillo’s sister, Rebecca Cardoza, said they have been left in the dark about what caused officers to open fire.

“No threat has been identified from my brother to those cops,” said Del Castillo’s sister, Rebecca Cardoza. “He never carried a weapon and we believe my brother died unnecessarily.”

The incident began shortly before 2 a.m. when the officers were sent to the 2000 block of south Susan Street near Harvard Boulevard and spotted two men – later identified as Del Castillo and Elpidio Gerald Antolin, 54, of Garden Grove, Bertagna said. Antolin, who also has a criminal record, was hospitalized after being shot but is expected to survive.

“At that point is when the officer-involved shooting occurred,” Bertagna said.

The gunfire struck both men, who drove off in a dark Chevy Blazer and led officers and a helicopter on a short pursuit that ended when the suspects’ SUV spun out of control at Edinger Avenue and Fairview Street, Bertagna said.

The bullet-ridden Blazer was processed Thursday by the Orange County Crime Lab and it revealed there was no weapon in the vehicle, Bertagna said, adding that no weapons were found on the suspects.

Details of what led to the shooting have not been released pending an investigation by the District’s Attorney’s Office, which is standard practice, and the Santa Ana Police Department, Bertagna said.

“Both parties continue to say this is under investigation,” said Cardoza, 35, of Santa Ana.

Del Castillo was convicted of grand-theft and burglary in 2008 and was wanted on a no-bail warrant.

“My family does not deny my brother’s criminal activity,” Cardoza said. “We are not here to justify any of that, but something is wrong and there is something the Santa Ana Police Department is hiding.”

She said her brother had a big heart, loved to laugh and liked to help people, including young people through Victory Outreach Church in Santa Ana. “That’s the brother I remember,” she said.

A private funeral service will be held Monday. Cardoza, who last spoke with her brother on Christmas Day, said she found out about his death on the news.

Del Castillo is survived by his wife of 32 years, three daughters, a son and a granddaughter. He also leaves behind his mother, father, two sisters, two brothers and his maternal grandparents.