One teen was killed and his brother jailed Sunday following a car crash that occurred after the two allegedly robbed a woman of her purse, led an off-duty San Antonio police officer on a chase and pointed a shotgun at his car, according to authorities.

Ethan Owen, 18, died at 3:40 p.m. at Brooke Army Medical Center from injuries sustained in the crash hours earlier. His brother, Eric Owen, 23, of La Vernia, was charged with aggravated robbery and was being held on $100,000 bail, according to county and city records.

The robbery occurred around 4:30 a.m. at a Southeast Side shopping center parking lot in the 2100 block of Loop 410 East, according to a report.

Several witnesses said they saw a pickup "creeping" around a parking lot when one of the men inside, identified as Ethan Owen, jumped out of the truck, stole a woman's purse and then jumped into the bed of the truck.

An off-duty officer chased the vehicle in his own pickup onto Interstate 10 East, the report said. During the chase, Ethan Owen allegedly threw an object at the officer's car. When the officer kept chasing the truck, the teen allegedly pointed a shotgun at him, the report said.

The officer "feared for his life and thought by ramming the suspect vehicle he could stop (the suspects') course of action," the report stated.

However, before the two trucks hit, the officer heard a "boom" and the driver, identified as Eric Owen, lost control and hit a retaining wall, the report states. Eric Owen had minor injuries. His brother was thrown from the back of the truck, causing the deadly injuries. The woman's purse and a shotgun were recovered at the scene of the accident, according to the report.

Eric Owen told police that he didn't know what his brother had done and that he suddenly jumped into the bed of the truck and yelled, "Go," the report said.

Attempts to reach the brothers' family were not successful.

The name of the off-duty officer was not released by officials Sunday evening. A Police Department spokesman said more details about the officer may be released Monday.