A man shot to death by police after a low-speed chase through the western suburbs was driving on a revoked license because of repeated DUI arrests and had been charged twice before with fleeing police, according to public records.

Police say they shot Dan Mojziszek, 52, when he tried to run officers down after they stopped his car in Franklin Park on Monday night. Mojziszek "disobeyed numerous verbal commands" before officers opened fire near the border of Northlake and Stone Park, police said.

Advertisement

The Cook County state's attorney's public integrity unit is investigating the incident, which began in Franklin Park about 7:34 p.m. Monday when officers tried to stop Mojziszek's car for erratic driving, police said.

Police said they chased south on Mannheim Road, where Mojziszek drove into oncoming traffic, "repeatedly endangering" other drivers. Mojziszek tried to strike police cars numerous times, police said.

Advertisement

Finally, a Franklin Park police sergeant struck Mojziszek's car at 61 E. Lake St. in Northlake, where Mojziszek ignored "numerous verbal commands" from officers on the scene, police said.

When officers surrounded the car and tried to remove him, Mojziszek put his car in gear, and police opened fire, police said. Mojziszek was taken to Elmhurst Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

But Northlake resident Nicholas Chrysler, who witnessed the incident, disputed the police account about officers trying to get Mojziszek out of the car before firing. "From what I saw, it was like the cops got out of their cars and just started shooting," said Chrysler, who was returning from dinner with three companions when they saw Mojziszek being followed by police.

Chrysler said he heard seven or eight shots, but it was difficult to see because of the police vehicles.

He said he did not believe police had time to order the man out of the vehicle "because it was literally three to five seconds from the time (police officers) got out of their vehicles and started shooting."

A police sergeant who was shot in the hand, apparently by police crossfire, also was taken to Elmhurst Hospital, police said.

In 2004, Mojziszek was charged with aggravated fleeing from a police officer in Elmhurst after leading police on a high-speed chase. In 2005, he was charged with aggravated fleeing from a police officer in Villa Park, after which he was sentenced to five years in prison.

Mojziszek's license was revoked in 1991, said secretary of state spokesman Dave Drucker. Mojziszek was convicted of DUI five times since 1986 and received seven citations for driving on a revoked license, Drucker said. Mojziszek wasn't eligible to get his license back, he said.

Advertisement

A neighbor said Mojziszek and his ex-wife, Patricia, had a 15-year-old son who attends Willowbrook High School. He said Mojziszek played piano and the trumpet and had been in a band. Mojziszek gave private music lessons, he said.

"He was a nice guy, a good person," said Michael Baren, who lives on Mojziszek's block. Steve Messinger, who lived across the street, said Mojziszek was "an excellent musician" who performed in concerts. But mental troubles resulted in frequent visits by police, he said.

"He's had problems over the years with not taking his medications," Messinger said. "Police were scared of him, I think, because they really didn't know how he was going to react."

When police would arrive at the house, Mojziszek would lock the front door and play his trumpet, he said.

Tribune reporter Art Barnum contributed to this report. gfsmith@tribune.com