After spending the afternoon helping his twin sister pick a gown for her wedding, police said Santos Sanchez then dedicated himself Wednesday night to helping his future brother-in-law kidnap and beat a man in a failed ransom attempt that ended in Sanchez's death.

Police killed Sanchez, 19, during an undercover operation early Thursday outside a South Side movie theater near Interstate 35. Sanchez's future brother-in-law, Gino Cantu, was arrested after a brief struggle with police.

The shooting became the first San Antonio police officer-involved shooting of the year.

The undercover operation began Wednesday night when police received a tip that a man had been kidnapped, assaulted and threatened with torture over a drug debt he owed his captors, according to a San Antonio Police Department news release.

Family members said they were shocked.

"He was trying on tuxedos with me yesterday," said his sister, Amalia Sanchez, 19, who is engaged to Cantu. "He said he wanted to look special for my big day. He was excited."

Sanchez said she last saw her brother leave their house with Cantu around 11:30 p.m. Wednesday.

"They said, 'I love you, we'll be back in a little while,'" she said, holding back tears.

The next morning, she turned on the TV news to find that her brother had been killed.

Police said Sanchez and Cantu, 30, arrived at the Santikos Mayan Palace 14 theater in the 1900 block of Southwest Military Drive to hand over an unidentified man in exchange for money the hostage owed in connection with drugs.

The hostage, who later identified his captors as Sanchez and Cantu, alleged that his hands were tied and a black hood was placed over his head, according to a police report. The report states that the man was transported to several locations and told he would not be freed until he could pay a debt totaling $3,000.

Police Chief William McManus said officers crafted a strategy and planned to meet the kidnappers, who believed the money would be exchanged for the man, at the movie theater parking lot.

The men arrived with the hostage in an SUV, according to a news release, and Sanchez exited the SUV and released the man.

Officers in the parking lot then approached the men to arrest them, according to police, but Sanchez returned to the SUV and began to drive toward police who were with the hostage. Police said two officers were pinned against a police vehicle and another was forced to jump out of the way to avoid being struck by the SUV.

"Fearing that the officers and/or hostage would be struck and possibly killed by the suspect vehicle," the news release states, "one of the officers fired his duty weapon several times, striking the suspect (driver) once."

Sanchez's passenger, Cantu, was arrested.

He remained in the Bexar County Jail on a charge of aggravated kidnapping with a deadly weapon. His bail was set at $150,000.

Family members said Cantu told them Sanchez panicked and tried to flee when he was shot by officers who surrounded his vehicle. Cantu told them police shot Sanchez in the back of the head, proving he was not attacking but fleeing.

As per police protocol, the officer - a 15-year veteran - who shot Sanchez has been placed on administrative leave while the department's shooting team investigates.

The man who was kidnapped had been beaten, police said, but his condition was not immediately known Thursday morning.

Family described both men as "family men" who went out of their way to take care of relatives. They said the lighthearted Sanchez, who was known for clowning around, had a serious side."He was a good boy," said Shevonne Ledesma, a cousin. "He might have made some mistakes but he didn't deserve to be killed. He was a good kid."