Release Date/Time: 1/15/2010 12:30 PM

Incident: Vehicle Theft, Pursuit, Possession of Firearm

Date: Friday, 1/15/2010

Time: 12:30 PM

Location: 900 Block Sage Court At approximately 0715 hours, a citizen called to report being the victim of an attempted vehicle theft. The victim confronted the Hispanic male suspect that was in the car, surprising him. Another vehicle, which was being driven by Edgar Galvan (Age 22), drove up next to the victim's vehicle and the suspect jumped into this vehicle. The vehicle sped away from the area. The victim was able to give a description of this vehicle as well as the two suspects.

Within minutes, Salinas Police Officers located the vehicle at Natividad Road and Boronda Road. The vehicle, a 1999 Ford Explorer, was also a stolen vehicle out of the City of Salinas. A vehicle pursuit ensued and eventually ended at the dead end of Calaveras Street, near El Dorado Park. Both suspects fled on foot and jumped several fences. Officers were able to catch Galvan in the 1500 block of Calusa Place and take him into custody. The other suspect was eventually seen going into a residence in the 1500 block of Yolo Circle. As officers approached the residence, they could hear yelling and then a single gunshot. Officers feared this was an active shooter and immediately forced entry into the residence. Officers saw the suspect on the living room couch with what appears to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head. There were other people inside the residence, but were not injured. They are also not related to the two suspects.

The suspect was taken to a local hospital where he was listed in critical condition and placed on life support. After several hours, the suspect was pronounced dead by medical staff. We are currently not releasing his name until family has been notifiedof his death. Both suspects are Sureno gang members.

Update 1/19/09: The second suspect is identified as Alfonso Perez Mora (Age 24). Mora was a resident of the City of Salinas. Mora also had several contacts with the Salinas Police Department.

Release Authorized by: Lalo Villegas

Telephone: (831) 758-7348