William R. Bumbrey II last saw his son about two weeks ago, when they shared a breakfast of bacon, eggs and pancakes and prayed together for his son's recovery from PCP addiction.

"I gave him some tough love," said Bumbrey, whose son died Sunday night shortly after a confrontation with Arlington County police in which an officer used a Taser.

William R. Bumbrey III, 36, had struggled with officers who were trying to subdue him on the platform of the Pentagon City Metro station about 8 p.m., police said. The officers wanted to question him in connection with the alleged theft of a bar of soap and hair clippers from a nearby drugstore.

Police have said it is unclear whether the Taser's probes delivered a jolt of electricity to Bumbrey, because he continued to struggle after the officer used the stun gun.

The Virginia medical examiner's office said the cause of death had not been determined, and police have classified the case as a death investigation, said police spokeswoman Crystal Nosal.

In an interview Tuesday, William Bumbrey II, 54, of the District, said that he thinks the Taser's jolt killed his son but that he would reserve judgment until the autopsy results come back. He said his son had fallen on hard times, battling drug addiction, living in a homeless shelter and weak from kidney dialysis.

The younger Bumbrey, a D.C. native, moved back to the District recently after being released about a year ago from a 10-year prison sentence for a sex offense committed in the city. He had been living in South Carolina with his mother, but he became depressed when his name showed up in a local paper as a registered sex offender, his father said.

"When he was not using or dealing drugs, he was one of the sweetest kids in the world," the father said. "I guess he was trying to self-medicate to overcome his problems."

Bumbrey said his son had shoplifted a $75 shirt from an Arlington store last week, but when police took him into custody, his blood pressure was so high and his health so poor that they sent him to a hospital and did not charge him. He spent five days in a hospital and did not want to leave when he was discharged, his father said.

William Bumbrey II said he thinks his son shoplifted again Sunday as a cry for help and an attempt to get away from the D.C. homeless shelter where he was staying.

"He said the showers were filthy and the staff didn't care," Bumbrey said.

According to Arlington police, the trouble began Sunday when officers were searching for a man after reports of a theft from a pharmacy. William Bumbrey III matched the thief's description and was carrying items similar to those reported stolen, police said.