MOBILE, Alabama – The mother of a mental patient who died during an altercation with police almost three years ago has dropped her federal lawsuit against the city.

Thomas Galliard, a lawyer for the city of Mobile, said he believes attorneys for the estate of Daniel Mingo realized after reviewing the autopsy report and other evidence that the facts did not match the allegations against police.

“The plaintiffs finally just agreed to voluntarily dismiss,” he said. “There were some allegations that were made that just didn’t pan out.”

An attorney for Mingo could not immediately be reached for comment today.

The incident began with a car chase on Jan. 21, 2010, when a police officer pulled Mingo’s car over on Halls Mill Road for erratic driving. The lawsuit alleged that the officer forcibly pulled Mingo out of the car and then stripped him and dragged him through asphalt, gravel and glass after he tried to run away. The officer stunned him several times with a Taser, the civil complaint alleged.

The complaint maintained that the 25-year-old man suffered a heart attack, along with a broken nose, head and neck injuries. He died a week later after his family took him off life support.

The defense denied that the officer used excessive force, arguing that Mingo took of his own clothes as he was running from police and then resisted officers’ attempts to handcuff him when they later found him in a shed. According to the defense account, an officer “touch tased” him once.

“The guy just took off running and started disrobing,” Galliard said.

The defense has maintained that Mingo suffered superficial scrapes to his arms and legs as a result of his resisting arrest. Galliard said the autopsy revealed that Mingo died from “excited delirium,” a somewhat controversial diagnosis associated with people suffering psychiatric and/or drug problems.

It is characterized by elevated body temperature, which Galliard said might explain why Mingo was taking off his clothes.

“It was certainly an unfortunate situation with Mr. Mingo passing away, but it was not a situation caused by the police,” he said.

Follow Brendan Kirby on Twitter: