IRVINGTON --Police have identified the officer who shot and killed a suspected burglar on Jan. 21 as a 12-year veteran of the department with several commendations.

Township police officials said Herne Lacoste, 38, who is assigned to the department's patrol division, fired a single shot from his .40 caliber service revolver, mortally wounding Timothy Wall, a 46-year-old burglary suspect, after a violent struggle in a Newark back yard.

Both police Director Joseph Santiago and Chief Michael Chase said that Lacoste’s internal affairs record contains no instances of incidents that are “inconsistent” with departmental rules and regulations or those from the attorney general’s office.

But Santiago and Chase both said confidentiality laws precluded them from releasing details of Lacoste’s record, such as whether he had ever discharged his service weapon. Lacoste, an Irvington High School graduate, has received valor and meritorious service awards.

He was briefly hospitalized with minor injuries following the shooting and has been granted medical leave, police said. He has not returned to duty since the incident.

At about 4 a.m. on Jan. 21, officers responded to reports of a break-in at a South 20th Street machine shop on the border of Newark. They had one of two suspected burglars surrounded. The man, though, jumped from the building’s roof and ran. He was eventually caught in a Beverly Street back yard, where he and Lacoste engaged in what the prosecutor’s office said was a “violent struggle.”

Lacoste fired once, hitting Wall in the chest, police said.

Wall, of Grove Street in Newark, was taken to University Hospital in Newark where he died a short time later. Wall had been arrested 22 times, mostly on burglary and drug charges and served time in the county jail on three convictions, police said.

Police have said that autopsy results on Wall’s body and other evidence support Lacoste’s account of events and that he was fearing for his life when he fired his weapon.

“Based on preliminary information … the nature of wounds don’t show an inconsistency with the accounting of what transpired,” Santiago said.

The prosecutor’s professional standards bureau and the Irvington Police Department’s internal affairs unit are investigating. As with all police shootings, the investigation’s findings will then be turned over to a grand jury for review.

Police are still searching for the second man believed to have been involved in the attempted burglary.

Irvington police last used lethal force in April 2008, when Detective Roman Melenka, who was nearing the end of his shift, walked into a Union Street bodega during a robbery and exchanged gunfire with a would-be robber, killing him.

Police are asking that anyone with information on the attempted break-in or its aftermath call the department at (973) 399-6522.