Los Angeles: This morning 29-year-old Ronald Palacios died while he was in the custody of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD).

On January 29, 2010, at around 12:16 a.m., police officers were dispatched to an "unknown trouble" radio call at a residence in the 700 block of West Manchester Avenue in the 77th Street Area of Los Angeles

Upon their arrival, the officers were directed to a locked bedroom where a man later identified as Palacios was reportedly acting strangely. It was believed that Palacios had dialed 911 and reported to the operator that he was being held against his will and needed help. The officers attempted to communicate with Palacios but received no response. The officers forced their way into the room. Palacios was coherent and satisfactorily answered the officer's questions about his well being. The officers determined that no crime had occurred and there was no cause to detain Palacios. The officers left the location.

Over an hour later, at about 1:33 a.m., the Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) requested the LAPD to return to the 700 block of West Manchester Avenue. Officers responded and were met by LAFD paramedics. They found Palacios in a back room. Palacios was sweating profusely and was described as having a "glazed appearance." When officers tried to gain control of Palacios, he pulled away. One of the officers warned Palacios that a Taser would be used. After the warning, the Taser was discharged at Palacios striking him. He fell to the ground and pulled the Taser dart from his body. The officers continued to struggle with Palacios, which included several punches by officers. The officers were only able to gain control of Palacios by activating the Taser in direct contact with him.

Palacios continued to struggle violently, kicking at the officers. He was handcuffed and a hobble restraint device was placed on his ankles.

Palacios eventually stopped resisting, allowing the paramedics to examine him. They found that he was not breathing and had no pulse.

Paramedics transported Palacios to an area hospital where he was pronounced dead.

Because Palacios was in the custody of the LAPD when he died, Force Investigation Division has assumed primary responsibility for the investigation.