A Eufaula man was found dead Tuesday evening after having allegedly shot and killed a woman earlier on Randolph Avenue.

Eufaula police responded to South Randolph Avenue and found a 25-year-old Eufaula woman, Mecca Denise Henderson, of Fairlane Drive, deceased in her vehicle. The car was parked near the intersection of Hunter’s Inlet and Randolph Avenue.

Henderson had been shot dead in her car. According to Barbour County Coroner Chip Chapman, she was pronounced dead at 5 p.m. The cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head. The weapon, a handgun, was recovered at the scene.

According to police, the victim’s 6-year-old son was in the vehicle when Henderson was shot.

Police then began a search for 27-year-old Jasper Lavar Toney, of Stovall Road, who was suspected of committing the murder. Toney was reportedly in a relationship with Henderson. A press release sent out by the Eufaula Police Department stated that Toney and Henderson had lived together in the past.

Eufaula Police officers and Barbour County Sheriff’s Deputies found Toney’s vehicle located at his work place on Gammage Road outside of the city limits, but Toney was not in the vehicle.

The Alabama Department of Corrections’ tracking unit responded to the scene, and was able to track Toney to a nearby creek where he was found dead in the water.

“It appears that the cause of death was drowning,” Chapman said.

Chief Investigator Ronnie Dollar stated that it did not appear as if Toney had shot himself.

The press release sent out by Eufaula police said that there were prior domestic violence issues between Toney and Henderson. Dollar said Eufaula police had responded to two prior domestic related calls at Henderson’s residence in the weeks prior to the homicide.

“From the reports, it looks like there was no physical assault reported in those incidents,” Dollar said. “And he (Toney) was always gone by the time we got there.”

Sheriff Leroy Upshaw confirmed that Toney was an inmate of the Barbour County Jail out on work release. He stated that they had no knowledge that he was not there or that there were any problems with him. Upshaw said Toney was incarcerated on drug charges.

Court records show Toney pleaded guilty to four felony counts of armed robbery in Pike County in 2002.

Dollar said it has been approximately four years since the last homicide in Eufaula.

Dothan Eagle reporter Matt Elofson contributed to this report.