NEWARK -- A teenager denied entry to a Newark go-go bar returned with a gun and fired into the lounge, critically injuring an off-duty Essex County Sheriff’s Officer who chased the youth down a city street, firing his service revolver and killing him, authorities said today.

The teenager, 19-year-old Darnell McNeil, of Somerset, was taken to University Hospital in Newark, where he was pronounced dead at 11:26 p.m. Sunday, acting Essex County Prosecutor Robert Laurino said.

The officer, Lorenzo K. Zackery, of Newark a 22-year law enforcement veteran, was shot once in the torso with a small-caliber gun and underwent surgery at University Hospital. He was listed in critical but stable condition last night and is expected to survive, Essex County Sheriff Armando Fontoura said.

"He was on the verge of collapse and death," Fontoura said of the moments before the gravely wounded lawman flagged down a Newark police cruiser for help some 500 feet from the Knockouts Go-Go Lounge on Sanford Avenue.

At an afternoon press conference, Laurino said a bouncer had asked the suspected assailant to leave the lounge about 10:45 p.m. Sunday because his ID appeared to be fake.

About 15 minutes later, the suspect, later identified as McNeil, returned with a gun, opened the door to the lounge and fired a single shot into the foyer, striking Zackery, authorities said. They would not say if McNeil was aiming for any one in particular.

After he was shot, the sheriff’s officer, who officials said was not involved in the teenager’s ouster from the lounge, took chase after the assailant, firing his 40-caliber service weapon at McNeil, officials said.

Officials said they did not know how many times the teen was shot. The gun is capable of holding 13 bullets, Laurino said.

It has not been determined whether Zackery, the married and the father of three, was at the go-go bar as a patron or helping with security for a Super Bowl party, an event that attracted about 65 people.

The case will eventually be presented to a grand jury, in keeping with policy governing police shootings. The last time a Essex sheriff’s officer was shot was in November; he suffered a leg wound.

In this case, the officer’s physical stamina might have contributed to his survival. "He was a workout fanatic," Fontoura said.

In the 1970s, Zachery excelled in sports at Weequahic High School, going on to play defensive back for Colorado State University. Later, he briefly played with the Washington Redskins.

Today, McNeil’s family members gathered at the Street Warriors, a community advocacy group on Newark’s Linden Street.

"He just didn’t deserve this. He was always so positive. ... He was an honor student," said Dana Fields, 52, Darnell’s great uncle who lives in South Brunswick. "We’re angry right now."

McNeil, who was born in Newark, had lived in North Carolina for many years. He enrolled in the fall of 2008 at Raritan Valley Community College, where he majored in law and minored in mathematics. Sunday night, family members said, he was returning home from his job at Overlook Hospital, where he works in food service.

His mother, Karen Cady-McNeil, who lives in North Carolina and drove to Newark after learning of her son’s death, was visibly shaken yesterday.

"My heart hurts so bad," a crying Cady-McNeil said.

By Phil Read and Alexi Friedman/The Star-Ledger

Previous coverage:

• Off-duty Essex County officer is stable after wounds suffered at Newark night club

• Off-duty Essex sheriff's officer is wounded in Newark nightclub, fatally shoots attacker