Six days before Clackamas County sheriff's Sgt. Jeffrey A. Grahn went on a

that left three dead, he barged in uninvited at his in-laws' 60th wedding anniversary party.

"He came right up to me, within inches of my face and he said, 'I understand you have issues with me,'" said brother-in-law Walter Trapp. "He wanted to talk to me, and I said no."

Trapp said his sister, Charlotte, was frightened of her husband but afraid to report him to police, both for fear of how he would react and because she didn't want him to lose his job.

"That's the sad part," Trapp said. "She was afraid he would get fired and they would lose their income."

On Friday night, Grahn, 46, walked into Gresham's M&M Lounge and confronted Charlotte, who was sitting with friends. Grahn and his wife went outside, where he fatally shot her. Moments later, police said, he re-entered and shot two of his wife's friends, then left and shot himself dead outside.

Charlotte Grahn, 47, of Boring and Kathleen Hoffmeister, 53, of Gresham both died from their wounds. Victoria Schulmerich, 53, of Gresham was in critical condition Monday at OHSU Hospital in Portland.

The gun Grahn used was not his service weapon, said Sgt. Rick Wilson, Gresham police spokesman.

Despite the couple's recent marriage troubles, the divorce attorney representing Grahn said she thought they were repairing their relationship.

"I thought they were headed toward reconciliation," said Rebecca Schaleger, who practices in Oregon City. "When I heard the news, I was sick to my stomach -- and very surprised. Then, I kept asking myself, 'Was there something I should have seen? Was there something I should have known?' "

"But there was nothing," Schaleger said. "I was completely blindsided by it."

Jeffrey Grahn filed for divorce in Clackamas County in August. Charlotte Grahn did not file a response, meaning that he could

have obtained a default judgment granting everything he sought in his petition.

He did not, however, and the divorce was about to be dismissed for lack of legal activity.

"He was fine with that," Schaleger said.

The couple, who had four children, ages 13 to 23, continued to live together at their home in the Boring area of Clackamas County.

According to Clackamas County records, no domestic violence calls were made from the home, and there were no restraining orders recorded against either of them.

"They were seeing a counselor," said Detective Jim Strovink, Clackamas County sheriff's spokesman. "But how was that working out? Well, not very well, as you can see."

Grahn did not have any outstanding disciplinary issues or documented substance abuse problems, Strovink said. "He was in good standing."

Grahn began his law enforcement career with the Seaside police. He was hired by Clackamas County Sheriff's Office in February 1995 and was promoted to the rank of sergeant in August 2003. For years, he worked in the Civil Division, which provides courthouse security and service of court papers. He had been most recently working as a patrol sergeant.

In 200, Sheriff Craig Roberts awarded Grahn a commendation for suggesting security upgrades while the courthouse was being renovated.

But not all his colleagues had a high opinion of Grahn.

A former co-worker, Lancer L. Meharry, told The Oregonian that Grahn was a control freak who had little patience for advice from more experienced deputies.

Meharry of Canby, a retired sheriff's deputy, said Grahn "ruthlessly" rode senior deputies until they quit or retired.

"How, you might ask, do I know and speak of these things?" Meharry said. "Well, after 35 years as a Clackamas County deputy sheriff, my last sergeant was Jeff Grahn. I bore the brunt of his ruthless behavior."

In 1999, Grahn was one of several Clackamas County sheriff's deputies and supervisors named in a lawsuit filled by Carl Bell, an African-American deputy, who was dismissed. Bell successfully argued that he was the victim of racial discrimination and retaliation. The county paid Bell $1.5 million.

Steve Mayes, Stuart Tomlinson, Stephen Beaven and Brad Schmidt contributed to this report.

--