Witnesses who encountered man just after fatal shooting describe his actionsFORT WORTH -- Johnny Gallegos and Jerry Heaslet were wrapping up their workday Thursday evening when they heard one gunshot, a pause and four more shots.Heaslet, co-owner of Glenn & Jerry's Auto Salvage at 5619 Elliott Reeder Road, and Gallegos, a manager there, stepped outside to investigate.They spotted a young man chasing a Chihuahua puppy."I went over to help him catch it. Then I realized he had a gun in his hand and he was the one shooting," said Gallegos, who quickly retreated and called 911.From about 20 yards away, Gallegos and Heaslet watched as the man -- later identified as 24-year-old Eric Frias -- dragged what appeared to be a woman's body to his Lincoln Town Car, placing it on the back seat. He then sat in the car for several minutes before driving away.Gallegos said he learned later that in those minutes, Frias was sending text messages telling "everybody he had killed his girlfriend and that he was going to kill himself."By then, Haltom City and Fort Worth police were responding to Gallegos' 911 call. They spotted the Town Car and tried to pull Frias over, but he wouldn't stop.On a stretch of Northeast Loop 820 in North Richland Hills, Frias completed his plan. His car inoperable from a crash, Frias stepped onto the freeway and pointed his gun at officers, police reported.Haltom City officers opened fire, striking Frias multiple times. He was taken by helicopter ambulance to a Fort Worth hospital but was pronounced dead at 7:20 p.m.Contrary to an initial report, Frias did not fire his gun, investigator Keith Bauman, a North Richland Hills police spokesman, said Friday morning. "Officers fired when they felt threatened," Bauman said.Inside the car, police found the body of Martha Irene Martinez, 22.Romantic relationshipFort Worth police are investigating Martinez's death, and North Richland Hills police and Haltom City internal affairs investigators are looking into Frias' shooting."It appears that Martinez and Frias had a history of romantic involvement," said Sgt. Chad Mahaffey, a Fort Worth police spokesman.Investigators were still trying to find possible motives for Martinez's shooting "as well as the nature and history of their relationship," he said.Gallegos and Heaslet said they were told by Martinez's and Frias' relatives that Frias was distraught because Martinez had recently broken up with him.Gallegos said it appeared that the couple had agreed to meet in a parking area in the 5900 block of Elliott Reeder Road not far from the salvage yard. Martinez's Dodge Durango and Frias' Town Car were parked driver's side to driver's side.Neither Gallegos nor Heaslet heard anything before the shots rang out.Frias made eye contact with both men, they said, but never threatened them."He didn't look dangerous to me," Gallegos said. "You could see that deer-in-the-headlights look on his face -- like, 'What did I just do?'"After putting Martinez's body in his car, Gallegos said, Frias sat inside for a minute before stepping back out and walking around. He then got back inside and sat another few minutes before slowly driving away.Heaslet said he followed Frias in his pickup, not even thinking that the man might open fire on his truck."He could have just dumped the body somewhere," Heaslet said. "This could have been long and drawn-out, and they might never have found out who had done it."Heaslet said he dropped back after police cars began bearing down on Frias' car.Text messagesWhile at a Fort Worth police office to give statements to investigators late Thursday, Gallegos and Heaslet said they met relatives of Frias' and Martinez's, some of whom learned what had happened through Frias' text messages.Heaslet said he was told that in addition to texting some of his own relatives, Frias had used Martinez's cellphone to send a group text message to all her contacts. Upon receiving the message, Martinez's brother reportedly called her phone and had a short conversation with Frias during the pursuit, Heaslet said.Gallegos said he learned that the puppy he had seen Frias chasing had belonged to Martinez.Gina Gutierrez, Martinez's aunt, described her niece as a free spirit who doted on her two brothers."She was just that mother hen to everybody," Gutierrez said. "She tried to help everyone out. When her friends were in need, she went out of her way to help them out."A 2007 graduate of North Side High School, Martinez attended college for a while and worked at a cellphone company, Gutierrez said. Martinez sometimes worked two jobs, Gutierrez said."She took care of her mother and her grandmother" Gutierrez said. "They were her life. She was always worried about those two."