FONTANA – A retired Fontana police sergeant served the city and numerous police officers this week with a wrongful-death lawsuit for the shooting of his son.

Larry A. Smith filed the suit in U.S. District Court, seeking unspecified damages. City officials confirmed they received the lawsuit Wednesday.

“I’ll get some closure on it if the cops learn that they can’t treat people like that,” said Smith, a 61-year-old Beaumont resident. “They didn’t go out there with the intention of killing my son, but they made a mistake, and it happened, so own up to it already.”

Police Chief Rodney Jones declined comment, saying he wanted to let the case run its course through the judicial system.

“We’re not going to try this in the media,” he said.

Mark Smith, 35, was shot and killed Feb. 26, 2010, after a car chase with police. He was fleeing from officers in a car he stole from his father a day earlier.

Larry Smith told police dispatchers before the shooting that his son had bipolar disorder and wasn’t taking his medication.

Police said Mark Smith aimed his father’s Glock 9mm handgun at officers twice, prompting them to open fire. Officers fired about 120 rounds.

Prosecutors this month cleared officers of charges and considered their use of deadly force justified.

Smith, who retired from the Fontana Police Department in 1993 and worked as a training specialist in use-of-force techniques for the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Training Academy, said in the lawsuit that his son posed no threat to officers.

Mark Smith “had not handled, aimed, pointed or fired a weapon at any of them,” the lawsuit said.

He also claims the city failed to properly train its officers, primarily in how to deal with someone who is mentally ill.

The city “had ample reason to know that its police officers were misusing their powers of arrest, search and use of deadly force,” he wrote in the suit.

Smith says if he receives money from the lawsuit, he plans to donate a portion of it to the National Alliance on Mental Illness.

melissa.pinion-whitt@inlandnewspapers.com

909-386-3878