The death of a man who leaped from a downtown Davenport parking ramp Feb. 28 when he tried to flee police was a “bizarre mistake,” Scott County Attorney Mike Walton said Wednesday.

Officers pursued Andre Klinghammer, 25, of Davenport about 1:15 a.m. after he was involved in two hit-and-run crashes, including one with a Davenport police vehicle, Walton said, announcing the results of a nearly two-month investigation.

No one saw Klinghammer fall from the fourth level of the Harrison Street parking ramp, Walton said.

He was pronounced dead at Genesis Medical Center, East Rusholme Street, Davenport. Autopsy results showed his blood-alcohol level to be at least three times the legal limit of .08, Walton said.

“He was obviously driving under the influence,” Walton said, adding that Klinghammer’s judgment was impaired and that he possibly mistook a gap between the parking ramp and the glass-enclosed stairwell as the stairwell or a landing.

Police first responded to the ramp to help a woman who had reported a sexual assault. A disturbance on the ramp also was reported to police.

Klinghammer was not involved in either incident, Walton and Scott County Sheriff’s Sgt. Mike Erwin said.

The Scott County Sheriff’s Department conducted the investigation, which concluded with Wednesday’s announcement. No charges are being filed in connection with the death.

According to an official summary of the case:

An officer investigating the disturbance descended the ramp when she was passed by a white Grand Prix — driven by Klinghammer — followed by a van. The driver of the van flashed his lights and told the officer he was struck by the Grand Prix.

The officer pursued Klinghammer back up the ramp and soon was assisted by other officers in squad cars.

Klinghammer hit a police K9 vehicle that tried to corner him. His Grand Prix was found parked near the fourth-level stairwell.

Officers found his body on the ground beside the stairwell.

Walton said evidence from police dash cameras and witnesses showed there was no direct contact between officers or anyone else and Klinghammer before his fatal fall.

Walton believed Klinghammer had reason to flee police. He was wanted on an outstanding warrant for driving under suspension and faced possible jail time.

Efforts to reach family Wednesday were unsuccessful.