The man suspected of fatally beating a 96-year-old Saratoga farmer and killing a Fremont man was identified by authorities Monday as Sonny Valenzuela Lopez of San Jose.

Lopez, 34, was shot and killed by Fremont Police SWAT officers in Cupertino on Sunday afternoon as officers tried to arrest him in connection with the March 1 killing of Larry Luis Lopez, 49, in his Niles district home. Relatives said the victim was Lopez’s uncle.

A second suspect is being sought in the death of Charlie Maridon and the brutal beating of his daughter, Carol, but police would not release any details about the man.

One day after Fremont police shot and killed Lopez, there were still as many questions as answers about the case. Detectives were reluctant to say what might have drawn Lopez, a frequent transient and drug abuser, to the hilltop home of Charlie and Carol Maridon in Saratoga or how they were able to link Lopez to that case after Fremont police decided he was their man in the killing of 49-year-old Larry Lopez.

Santa Clara County Sheriff’s Sgt. Rick Sung said officers from Fremont police and the Sheriff’s Office launched “a joint high-risk operation” to arrest Lopez. Fremont detectives had learned that Lopez was staying at an apartment complex in the 10000 block of Miller Avenue in Cupertino.

About 2 p.m., a team of Fremont SWAT officers saw Lopez leave the apartment complex on foot, Sung said. The officers confronted the suspect and identified themselves as police officers. Lopez, who was armed with a handgun, started running away, with officers following on foot. Sung said “several shots were fired” but said he did not know whether Lopez had fired his gun.

Deputies from the sheriff’s emergency response team were at the scene “but did not get involved in the pursuit or the shooting,” Sung said.

The Santa Clara County Sheriff’s Department is investigating the shooting, and the Santa Clara County District Attorney is monitoring the probe.Fremont police have not yet revealed a motive for the death of Larry Luis Lopez or disclosed evidence linking Sonny Lopez to the homicide.

Estella Lopez, the daughter-in-law of Larry Luis Lopez, said Monday that the family was caught off-guard when they learned that Sonny Lopez was a suspect in Larry Lopez’s death.

“It’s kind of bittersweet,” she said in a telephone interview. “On one hand we know who killed (Larry), but on the other it was a relative.”

Estella Lopez, who is married to Larry Lopez’s oldest son, said Sonny Lopez and Larry Lopez once had a close bond.

“(Larry) was like a second father to him,” she said.

Santa Clara County Sheriff’s detectives also considered Sonny Lopez a “possible suspect” in the Dec. 3 death of Maridon and the beating of his daughter after intruders were unable to locate a safe they said they were looking for. Carol Maridon survived the attack.

Court records in Santa Clara County show that Sonny Lopez has a “5150” tattooed on his neck, and had been arrested on at least 13 occasions as an adult — most recently in 2005. Most of the crimes were for drug- and alcohol-related misdemeanors and vehicle code violations, including possession of methamphetamine and carrying a 7-inch knife, records show.

A San Jose neighbor of Lopez’s parents said people should not jump to conclusions about Lopez.

“I don’t assume he did it just because he is a suspect in those homicides,” said Vicky Risk, who has lived next door to Sonny Lopez’s parents, for 13 years. “Police have considered Sonny a ‘usual suspect’ for lots of things because of his past. And sometimes, it turns out he’s not been responsible.”

Risk said she is aware of some of Lopez’s criminal past. She said he visited his parents from time to time because his son is being raised there. The Lopez family declined to comment.

Risk said she brought over a flower and card for the family. Another neighbor brought over a ham.

“This is a tragedy for his family,” Risk said. “I know it’s been a tragedy for other families, too. But I feel sorry for his parents, even if their son did it, that just makes it worse for them.”

Staff Writer Mark Gomez contributed to this report. Contact Lisa Fernandez at 408-920-5002.