The man shot to death by Thornton police early Wednesday was a long-time baggage handler for American Airlines who was diagnosed as being bipolar in 2004, his son said today.

“He was a hardworking man,” Daniel Mason said of his 45-year-old father, Clint Mason, who was shot early Wednesday outside a Thornton residence.

Daniel Mason, 23, said that as long as his father was on his medications, he was “perfectly fine.” But off his medications, he had mood swings and could be difficult.

Daniel Mason said his father had worked for American Airlines in Albuquerque, Chicago and most recently in Denver.

Daniel Mason said his parents divorced more than 13 years ago. He said he and his sister would fly from Albuquerque to Chicago every summer and spend two weeks with his father. On occasions, his father would take them to Chicago’s O’Hare Airport and they’d watch his dad loading luggage onto planes.

Daniel Mason said his dad took pride in his work.

Clint Mason remarried, but about five years ago, he divorced. Daniel Mason said that his father’s psychological problems made the marriage tough for his second wife.

“His wife couldn’t take all the changes,” said Daniel Mason about his father’s mood swings.

Clint Mason had no serious problems with law enforcement.

In August 2005, he pleaded guilty to reckless driving in Greeley and was placed on 18 months of unsupervised probation. He also paid fines and court costs of $184 in connection with the misdemeanor offense that occurred on July 24, 2005.

According to Colorado Bureau of Investigation records, Clint Mason was arrested six months earlier in Brighton in January of 2005 for disorderly conduct.

Daniel Mason said that although he had recently moved to Denver, he hadn’t spoken to his father since 2004. He said there had been “some rough patches between us.”

Daniel Mason said he did not know his father’s male roommate in the 11600 block of Steele Street, where his father allegedly tore up the house, stole the roommate’s van and then returned and confronted officers.

There, police said, Clint Mason approached the homeowner and officers, grabbed a knife he was carrying and refused commands to “stop” and “get on the ground.”

One officer fired a Taser and a second officer then fired his weapon.

The Adams County coroner said in a statement this afternoon that an autopsy revealed Mason died of “multiple gunshot wounds” to the front of his body or torso.

Matt Barnes, spokesman for the Thornton Police Department, stressed today that as Mason approached the owner of the home and two officers standing outside the home, Mason reached down and placed his hand on the knife, which was in a sheath. Barnes said he did not know whether Mason unsnapped the sheath, as originally believed yesterday.

In addition, Barnes said that Mason did not break into the home of his roommate as originally reported.

He said Mason, because he was living there, had access to the home. Barnes said the home owner was sleeping when he heard someone trashing the house. The homeowner originally reported in his 911 call that an unknown intruder was in the house, but he later realized it was Mason who was tearing the premises up.

Barnes said no further information will be coming from the Thornton Police Department. He said the investigation is now in the hands of the Adams County Critical incident Team.

Howard Pankratz: 303-954-1939 or hpankratz@denverpost.com