DECATUR - Craig Louis Johnson, the drunk driver who crashed his car into a Mount Zion house, killing one man in his bed and seriously injuring his wife as she lay beside him, was sentenced to seven years in prison Monday.

Johnson, 21, leaned back in his chair at the defense table and took a deep breath, after Associate Judge Scott B. Diamond pronounced the sentence.

Johnson, who apologized to the victim's family and his own family during the sentencing hearing, was taken into custody. He had been free on bond since May 7 after serving 55 days in jail.

As part of a plea agreement, Johnson had pleaded guilty on Aug. 23 to reckless homicide, a Class 2 felony, as well as aggravated fleeing and aggravated driving with a blood-alcohol concentration of 0.08 percent or higher, both Class 4 felonies. Diamond said sentences for the two lesser charges will be served concurrently.

Diamond explained his reasons for choosing the sentence, midway between the recommendations of defense attorney Greg Fombelle, who argued for probation, and Assistant Macon County State's Attorney Duane Deters, who recommended the maximum sentence of 14 years.

"I have to send some type of message to the community over this," Diamond said, after noting that Johnson stood out as a homicide defendant, because he had no prior criminal record. "I cannot give you probation. This type of conduct will not be tolerated. I am not going to give you the maximum."

With his sentence for reckless homicide to be served at 85 percent, minus time served in the Macon County Jail, Johnson will be eligible for parole around July 2016.

The gallery was packed with family members and friends of the victims, David Hughes, 62, and his widow, Shirley, as well as Johnson's supporters.

"We are happy," said Amy Miller, one of four of the couple's adult daughters, after the hearing was adjourned. "We are pleased with what happened. We feel justice has been served and that no one really won here. We're just glad our nightmare is over."

Deters said he had never been involved with a case where someone not only hit a house, but drove right into it.

"I think the court sent a strong message today that drinking and driving is to be taken seriously in Macon County," Deters said. "I hope we never have a case like this again. If he had pulled over for the police, he would have had court supervision."

Deters, who prosecuted the case along with Assistant State's Attorney Mike Baggett, credited the Mount Zion Police Department and Macon County Sheriff's Office for their "fabulous" job of investigating the crime.

At 12:33 a.m. Sunday, March 14, Mount Zion police Sgt. Mike Foster attempted to stop Johnson, after noticing he had no license plate light. When Johnson saw the officer, he accelerated, reaching speeds of 64 to 78 mph, before hitting an embankment at the curb of the Hughes home, sailing into the air, and crashing through the window into the front bedroom.

The sentencing hearing began Friday afternoon with three hours of testimony from police officers, Shirley Hughes and her daughters, and defense character witnesses, including Johnson's father and Public Defender Greg Mattingley, a friend of the family. It resumed Monday with Johnson's statement and testimony from another character witness, a Kroger's supervisor who said Johnson had been a reliable, excellent employee.

Teresa Allenbaugh, the couple's oldest daughter, was staying at the Hughes home at the time of the crash, along with her three young grandchildren. Allenbaugh, an Oklahoma resident, was visiting at the home on Elm Street, where she had lived while growing up 30 to 40 years ago.

"We were in the back sunroom sleeping," Allenbaugh testified. "I had just gone to bed and so had my mother. My father had been in bed one-and-a-half hours."

Just as she put her head down on the pillow, she heard a "horrific sound." She jumped out of bed, and her grandchildren also jumped up. She could see into her parents' room, but things were unexplainably out of sorts.

"I could see night outside where I shouldn't be seeing it," she recalled. "I just started searching for my mom. I could hear my mom saying, 'I'm here, Teresa, I'm here.' "

Shirley Hughes also failed to understand what was happening. She was saying, "Dave, Dave, what happened to us?"

When she tried to move toward her mother's voice, Allenbaugh's path was blocked by a muffler. Allenbaugh was so confused, she did not know whether she was awake.

"I thought I was dreaming," Allenbaugh said.

Just as she realized she was in the middle of something worse than any nightmare, Foster entered the bedroom. He told her she and the children had to leave the house, because there might be a fire or explosion. The children left, but Allenbaugh stayed until she and Foster located her mother.

"We leaned over, under the car, and she was hanging over the bed," Allenbaugh said. "I kept yelling for my dad. Then I saw his head coming out somewhere."

About that time, Allenbaugh realized that there was someone else in the room.

In the courtroom, that memory triggered an angry reaction.

"It was him," Allenbaugh said, pointing toward the defendant with the index fingers of both her hands, as tears welled up in her eyes. "It was him, looking right at me, sitting on the car that was sitting on my mom and dad."

David Hughes never regained consciousness. He was pronounced dead at the scene a few hours later.

Robert Staudenmaier, Mount Zion assistant fire chief, was the first emergency responder on the scene. He testified that he found Shirley Hughes in bed, with both her legs pinned beneath a front tire.

It took firefighters about three hours to lift the car off of Shirley Hughes, before taking her to the hospital. After five surgeries and a lengthy hospital stay, Shirley Hughes has recently regained her ability to walk with the aid of a walker. She moved to Oklahoma because Allenbaugh and another daughter live there.

Hughes vowed she would never return to the wrecked home on Elm Street where she had had so many happy memories with her husband during their marriage of almost 30 years. The house, which required extensive rehabilitation, was recently sold.

Shirley Hughes testified that her head had just hit the bed, when she felt something moving her and felt things falling on her eyes.

"My head was hanging off the bed," she recalled, adding she could not remember much of what occurred. "They put a pillow under my head. I remember asking for my husband."

Almost seven months later, Shirley Hughes sat in the front row of the courtroom gallery as the young man who flew into her bedroom apologized to her.

Standing at a lectern facing the judge, dressed in a black suit, Johnson turned toward Hughes and her daughters.

"I'm sorry to your family, especially to you, Shirley, for all the injuries and pain that I caused," Johnson said. "Hopefully one day, I'll know how to redeem myself for you guys."

Johnson, who turned 21 the previous Monday, also apologized to his own family and friends. He said it was probably harder for them than it was for him.

"Especially you, Mom," Johnson said. "I wish I could have been a better son. There's so much I wish I could have done different in my life. I've been working to be better and hopefully I will continue to do so."