OVERLAND • It was reckless but not intentional when an Overland police officer pushed a man down some steps to his death, St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert P. McCulloch said Tuesday.

"There was no intent — certainly no evidence of intent — to kill. But when you act in a reckless manner, you are responsible for your actions," McCulloch said in explaining the first-degree involuntary manslaughter charge he filed Monday against Officer Andrew Thomas Ringeisen.

Ken Hamilton, 49, suffered a "massive head injury" March 20, according to court records. He died at a hospital March 25, after life support was removed.

The night of March 20, police had been called about a road rage incident in which a motorist used flashing lights and a siren on a Jeep. Knowing that Hamilton had such a vehicle, officials said, officers went to his home in the 2600 block of West Milton Avenue about 10:45 p.m.

Capt. Michael Laws, the acting police chief, would not provide details about what happened next, but he emphasized that officers had not used guns or Tasers.

"The gentleman got hurt and subsequently died from his injuries," Laws said. "Obviously, this is a very tragic situation."

McCulloch, the prosecutor, said, "At the gentleman's house, there was a confrontation — oral, not physical." He continued, "During that confrontation, Ringeisen shoved (Hamilton) down the stairs, which resulted in his death several days later."

Hamilton's brother, Joe Hamilton, said in an interview Tuesday that he heard thumping noises outside their home that night and found his brother at the bottom of some steps.

Investigators have said that officers left the scene after the fall and returned when Joe Hamilton called for help. McCulloch would not discuss Tuesday whether police left without providing aid to the injured man. The prosecutor did say he did not expect to file charges against anyone else.

Laws said a few other Overland officers had been suspended with pay during the investigation. He declined to say how many, or to identify them. He said he asked March 21 for a county police investigation, explaining, "We didn't want anybody accusing us of a coverup."

Joe Hamilton said he gave a surveillance video of the incident to the Overland Police Department, before he knew that its officers were involved. County investigators said they received the tape but found nothing on it of use.

Joe Hamilton raised a question of whether police might have erased the evidence, although an investigator said relatives told detectives the camera had not been working.

Joe Hamilton insisted to a reporter Tuesday, "I checked the recorder even this morning and it works."

Neighbors described Ken Hamilton, the victim, as unemployed and living with his brother and nephew. One neighbor called him "a police wannabe."

But Joe Hamilton said his brother was a law-abiding citizen who had earned awards for his work in the community and worked with a not-for-profit organization as its chief of emergency services. "He doesn't run around acting like the police like I heard somebody said he does," Joe Hamilton said.

The accused officer, Ringeisen, 34, lives in Troy, Mo., and is a seven-year veteran of the Overland police. His bail was set at $40,000 but he had not yet surrendered Tuesday evening.

Ringeisen had been injured during a traffic stop last year when a passing drunken driver clipped him with a vehicle mirror and kept going, according to court records. Other officers stopped the motorist and Ringeisen is suing him, claiming permanent injury to his elbow, shoulder, arm and back.

Paul Hampel, Heather Ratcliffe and Christine Byers of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.