More than 100 people marched last night from Chimborazo Park to honor the life of Apostle Anthony L. Taylor and to pray at the intersection where it ended in a flash of mayhem a week ago.

"This is a difficult occasion for our city, because Apostle Taylor was a great man," Richmond Mayor Dwight C. Jones told the crowd. "We have lost a tall tree, a tall timber. . . . His death was such a tragedy."

Taylor, 44, was killed Wednesday night a few blocks from his church, the United House of Prayer for All People, while headed home on P Street. A vehicle fleeing from Henrico County police ran the stop sign on North 31st Street and smashed into Taylor's pickup truck.

Taylor had been pastor of the church at 926 Chimborazo Blvd. for 18 years. His remains will be on view there today from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m. A wake will begin at 7 p.m.

Jones promised a study of chase policies in the city and adjoining counties. "Our streets are narrow, our children are precious, we want to protect our citizenry, we do not want to put them at peril. . . . We don't want to have to be here again," he said.

"In providing for the safety of our citizens it is incumbent upon us to review our procedures [so] we can assure that the high-speed chases that are coming through our neighborhoods are necessary and . . . that, if not, we will not have them," he said.

Mourners gathered at the park on East Broad Street about 6:30 p.m. and listened to remarks from Del. Delores L. McQuinn, D-Richmond, members of the clergy, and others whose lives Taylor touched.

One, Melquan Robinson, a young man who said Taylor turned his life around, said: "It's kind of hard to see the man that was my father is gone. . . . He inspired me to do a lot of things, to live a better life."

The church marching band, which Taylor helped build with youngsters he recruited, led the marchers half a mile on Chimborazo Boulevard from the park to the church. Robinson was the drum major.

Dozens were waiting at the front of the church, where three crosses were planted in the ground, the middle one adorned with a purple cloth.

From the church steps, McQuinn introduced Shelley Harris, mother of Darryl M. Harris, 26, who is charged with involuntary manslaughter and eluding police. Harris apologized to the church and the community and told them how sorry she is for their loss.

She read from what she was said was a letter written by her son: "Dear Mom, please convey my sorrow for the loss of Apostle Anthony Taylor. I regret my driving at a high rate of speed after I panicked at the police checkpoint. I have promised to dedicate my life to Apostle Taylor's memory."

"Thank you all," she said to warm applause.

A man in the crowd shouted: "In the name of Jesus, we have love for that boy."

Earlier, at the park, the Rev. Joe Ellison said Taylor "was planted in that church. He was brand new when he started." Ellison, the pastor of Essex Village Community Church in Henrico, knew Taylor for 20 years.

"I just hope the community will wait until the investigation is over. . . . I have confidence in the Richmond Police Department and Mike Herring," Ellison said, referring to Richmond's commonwealth's attorney.

The evening ended at 31st and P streets, where Taylor's life ended. Sen. Henry L. Marsh III, D-Richmond, said Taylor "was a light in this community. . . . He loved the young people. He did a lot to encourage them."

A home-going celebration will be held at the United House of Prayer in Newport News beginning tomorrow at 7 p.m. A funeral is scheduled Saturday at the United House of Prayer in Charlotte, N.C. Burial will be at Sharon Memorial Park in Charlotte.