CENTREVILLE

— Armed with a shotgun and surrounded by police, Aaron McCausland kept officers at bay for nearly eight minutes Friday, stepping out of his pick-up truck several times with his weapon in hand.

He refused to give up his gun, though, and at the moment a St. Joseph County Sheriff’s deputy fired the first shot, McCausland had just climbed back inside the truck and started to close the door,

.

The first bullet apparently missed but a second shot fired by another county deputy struck McCausland in the back of his right shoulder.

One of the deputies then fired a third shot as McCausland began to exit his pick-up truck with his shotgun lowering to what police called a potential firing position.

A fourth police gunshot sounded and as a wounded McCausland began to drop to the ground, the 42-year-old Constantine man got off his first shot.

Over the span of seconds, police video shows two St. Joseph County Sheriff’s deputies fired six rounds from a handgun and an assault rifle. A wounded McCausland squeezed off three shots.

In the end, four police rounds hit McCausland, killing him at the scene. Ricocheting pellets fired by McCausland grazed one deputy, resulting in a minor leg injury.

St. Joseph County Prosecutor John McDonough played about 13 minutes of video from a police cruiser at a press conference Tuesday, saying the tape supports his conclusion that officers “were completely justified“ in their actions and “did everything they could to prevent this situation.”

McDonough said Tuesday

with some still unresolved questions about the behavior of the divorced father of two. Police believe McCausland had consumed alcohol before the incident, however, results of a toxicology report aren’t available yet, McDonough said.

Some people who attended McCausland’s funeral Tuesday and friends having a beer at the Jaywalker Restaurant in Mottville after the service said McCausland was not a belligerent or violent man likely to taunt police in an armed standoff.

“That was just not in his character,” said one mourner who declined to be named.

McDonough said family members who met with him following the funeral agreed, telling him “this is not the Aaron McCausland they knew.”

But McCausland’s own words on the police video may provide some insight.

At one point, he tells officers, “I’m not coming out of this truck ’cause you’re going to shoot me.” But moments later he tells police, “I got nothing to live for” and “I’m not going back to jail.”

McDonough said McCausland had no record of violent crime. He had been arrested for drunken driving in December and may have spent at least one night in the county jail.

McCausland was on probation, but apparently did have a valid driver’s license, McDonough said.

Officials said they’re continuing to piece together what McCausland had done and who he had seen earlier on Friday. Witnesses, who declined to be named, at the Jaywalker Restaurant west of White Pigeon said that during the afternoon on Friday McCausland and another customer had a disagreement at the restaurant. It resulted in McCausland showing his shotgun out in the parking lot and the other man grabbing a baseball bat.

The witnesses said that observers helped to de-escalate the situation and both men left. However, McDonough said 911 operators received a call of “shots fired” at what’s believed to be the second man’s Riverside Drive home and were given McCausland’s name and a description of his white pick-up truck.

McDonough said area police stopped several trucks matching the description before White Pigeon officers spotted McCausland eastbound on U.S. 12.

Although the video showed McCausland did not immediately stop when the patrol car’s lights and siren activated, he did not gain speed or attempt to elude the officers before pulling into a parking lot near the White Pigeon Inn and stopping.

McDonough said officers assumed when they stopped McCausland that he had a weapon, based on the 911 call.

According to McDonough, the officers said McCausland had released the trigger safety on his firearm and raised and lowered the shotgun several times during the altercation.

That action gave officers reason to believe they were in jeopardy, said Undersheriff Mark Lillywhite. At that point, the decision of whether to fire on McCausland was left to the officers’ judgment, Lillywhite said.

McDonough said he believed White Pigeon Police and Michigan State Police personnel at the scene did not fire because they did not have clear shots.

According to McDonough, Patrick Moore, owner of the White Pigeon Inn who initially told the Kalamazoo Gazette he had witnessed the incident, and

, has refused to be interviewed by police.

Contact Kathy Jessup at

or (269) 388-8590.