Deirdre Conner

Just minutes before he became a bank robbery and carjacking suspect shot dead in a hail of police gunfire, Jeremiah Mathis sent a text message to his oldest sister.

Cachandra Mathis said it was about 2:50 p.m. when she received the last in a series of what she thought were catching-up messages from her 31-year-old brother, who had moved to Jacksonville from upstate New York in December.

"He said, 'I'm just trying to keep my head above water,' " she said.

Just after 3 p.m., police say, Jeremiah Mathis robbed the Wachovia Bank on Baymeadows Road, then commandeered a car at a nearby Wendy's drive-thru.

Shortly thereafter, five officers shot 42 rounds at Mathis and the car. Inside were an innocent woman and her two children; the youngest, 2-year-old Daniel Crichton, was critically wounded. His mother, Jo-Ann Cooper, was shot in the foot. Daniel remains hospitalized in critical but stable condition; Cooper's condition is reported as fair.

Mathis, who died, never shot the .357 revolver in his possession. And today his siblings, who live in Florida and New York, said they were grappling with a mix of emotions: shock, anger and concern for the wounded bystanders.

Cachandra Mathis said her brother was working and struggling to get his child support paid. He had four children, two with his ex-wife in Utica, N.Y., and two with a girlfriend in Jacksonville. His drivers' license had been suspended because of it, Mathis said, and he spoke constantly of needing to get it paid.

"I'm trying not to believe that's why he did what he did, but … " she said Wednesday, then trailed off.

Mathis said she is angry because of conflicting reports about the sequence of events that led to the shooting.

"The police's story isn't matching up to me," she said by phone from her home in Syracuse, N.Y. "At one point it was the car door was open, one point the car door was closed."

She said she believes the account given by an eyewitness who told The Times-Union that he believed the suspect was surrendering as shots rang out.

Lee Thomas, Mathis' oldest brother, lives in Winter Haven and said he last spoke to his brother around Christmas. He said he is praying for the family of the wounded and has grave concerns about the shooting.

"In my heart I'm thinking about them more than I'm thinking about my brother," Thomas said. "I'm still trying to wrap my head around what he did. I cannot justify what he did. But I also can't understand what [the police] did."

Jeremiah Mathis had a criminal record in New York that included two felony drug charges and a felony second-degree robbery conviction, according to the Utica Observer-Dispatch. The newspaper reported he was last in prison in 1999 for the robbery.

Thomas said his brother was a quiet child who didn't graduate from high school and struggled in his early life but had recently been drawn back to faith in God. Thomas said that Mathis loved his children and tried to be a good father to them.

Cachandra Mathis said her brother was working with his children's mother, who was not available for comment Wednesday.

Thomas said his younger siblings had a difficult upbringing. Their mother bore Thomas when she was 13, he said, and he was given up for adoption.

The family then moved from Bartow in Central Florida to New York and had three more children together. Jeremiah Mathis was eight years younger than Thomas.

Thomas, 39, was raised in an intensely Christian and middle class household by his adopted parents in Winter Haven, and said he first got in touch with his birth family at age 18. He found his younger sibling grew up in poverty and their father was in and out of their lives, he said.

"Sometimes I think if I had been there I might have ended up in the same situation," Thomas said. "He was raised in an environment where there wasn't a lot to dream about."