By Trang Do - bio | email



LAUDERDALE COUNTY, AL (WAFF) - Multiple sources have confirmed to WAFF 48 News that the suspect in a Lauderdale County fatal shooting has died.

Authorities say he shot himself at a relative's home.

It happened around 4:00 Saturday afternoon at 285 County Road 472 in the Lexington community.

Authorities have identified the man as 32-year-old James Christopher Robertson.

ABI Spokesman Curtis Summerville told WAFF 48 News Robertson and the woman he was suspected of killing, 38-year-old Regina Russell of Florence, had been in a relationship, but were estranged.

Authorities said Russell was brutally beaten then fatally shot in the head Friday night in a parking lot off Butler Creek Road in the Shoal Creek Preserve.

"She was found by I believe by a park ranger, or something of that nature, and I'm not sure on that, but she was found by someone in the vehicle," Summerville said.

Lauderdale County District Attorney Chris Connolly said it's a loss felt strongly by the sheriff's office, where Russell worked as a part-time dispatcher.

"Obviously, we lost one of our own, Regina last night," Connolly said.

Lauderdale County turned the investigation over to the ABI because it involves an employee.

Summerville said Robertson was quickly developed as a suspect and several agencies launched an extensive search for him.

It wasn't until early Saturday evening, however, that a state trooper spotted Robertson in a black Nissan truck and attempted to pull him over.

Authorities say Robertson did not stop, leading the trooper to his brother's home at 285 County Road 472.

"The driver of the vehicle, got out of the vehicle, placed a weapon to his head, and had a self inflicted wound to his head," Summerville said.

Authorities were out at the home, about two months ago, investigating a double murder-suicide.

"This was eerily similar to that multiple homicide and suicide we had," Connolly said. "His truck is in the same location as that, and a lot of blood."

©2010 WAFF. All rights reserved.