Intruder killed in deputy home incident Published 6:29 pm Monday, March 29, 2010

A Bogue Chitto man was pronounced dead on the scene after beingshot during a home invasion at the residence of a Lincoln Countysheriff’s deputy early Sunday morning, authorties said.

Lincoln County Coroner Clay McMorris said Bobby Lee Mansell,Jr., 37, of Highway 583 in Bogue Chitto, was dead on the sceneafter being shot inside the deputy’s home. He said the body hasbeen transported to the Mississippi State Crime Lab for a routineautopsy.

Lincoln County Sheriff Steve Rushing said the deputy, whose namehe declined to release pending completion of the investigation,reported hearing a noise in his house around 3 a.m. Sunday.

“He heard a noise and when he went to investigate it he found amasked man in his living room,” Rushing said. “He was at home withhis two small children and he feared for his safety andtheirs.”

Rushing said the intruder was shot inside the deputy’s home, butescaped before collapsing in the yard a short time later. McMorrissaid Mansell was killed by a gunshot wound and pronounced on thescene by emergency medical services around 3:30 a.m.

Rushing said the deputy has been with the Lincoln CountySheriff’s Department around seven or eight years altogether, and inlaw enforcement for more than 10 years. He has been an exemplaryofficer during that time, the sheriff said.

In a situation where a deputy is involved in a shooting, Rushingsaid it is routine to put him on paid leave for two weeks. Inaddition, he said, it is routine for the Mississippi Bureau ofInvestigation to spearhead the investigation.

“That in no way reflects on the actions of the officer,” hesaid. “It’s just procedure with the department to make sure all thebases are covered.”

Rushing said Mansell had been arrested on burglary charges inLincoln County before.

Lawrence County officials confirmed that Mansell had an arrestrecord there as well, but would not elaborate. The Lawrence CountyPress reported Mansell was picked up by Lawrence Countyinvestigators on multiple counts of burglary during the holidayseason of 2009.

Mansell’s funeral arrangements are being handled by WilsonFuneral Home in Monticello. Arrangements are incomplete.