Chicago police said two early Monday shootings of allegedly armed men by officers were proper, including one that killed a 32-year-old man who used a teenage girl as a human shield in a 1989 gang shooting.

The fatal shooting of Luis Bonilla and the wounding of a second man occurred in separate incidents within an hour of each other and brought the number of police shootings so far this year to 15, more than double the total for the same period last year, police said Monday. Three of this year's shootings have been fatal, compared with two last year.

Advertisement

The two Grand Central District officers were driving near Fullerton and Central Park Avenues about 12:45 a.m. Monday when they heard a number of shots being fired and saw Bonilla chasing another man and firing a gun, said police spokesman Pat Camden.

The officers spotted Bonilla getting into his car, so they drove up to block his path. But as one officer was getting out of his vehicle, Bonilla allegedly rammed the officer's door with his car, pinning the officer and injuring his leg.

Advertisement

Camden said Bonilla had a weapon and the two officers fired. Bonilla was struck three times.

Bonilla, who went by at least two aliases, was paroled on a stolen vehicle charge in February and also served time on a 1995 drug charge. The year before, he had been given 3 years' probation for attempted first-degree murder, police said.

But he was never charged in the April 1989 death of 16-year-old Maria Gonzales, whom Bonilla grabbed and used to shield himself from gang gunfire while walking in the 1600 block of North Kimball Avenue. Gonzales was struck six times.

Less than an hour before Bonilla was shot Monday, a 31-year-old man was shot by Englewood District officers on the South Side, Camden said.

The officers were patrolling in their car near 73rd and Aberdeen Streets just after midnight, when they heard gunfire and found the man standing in the street and waving a 9mm pistol.

The officers, who were in uniform, ordered the man to drop his weapon, but he instead turned toward the officers, Camden said. The officers fired and struck him in the right arm. He was in serious condition at Christ Hospital and Medical Center and had not been charged as of Monday evening.