Chicago police said Tuesday that there didn't appear to be any wrongdoing on the part of an officer who shot and killed a Broadview man after he allegedly brandished a gun at officers on the Northwest Side.

But family and friends of William Hardy described the 27-year-old as nonconfrontational and criticized the actions taken Monday night by police.

Advertisement

"They shot him, and they didn't even have to," said Corey Lofton, a close friend who said he was with Hardy when he was shot about 9:15 p.m. Monday in the North Austin neighborhood.

Police, however, said Hardy turned and pointed a gun at officers when he was told to stop during an incident near Hirsch Street and Mayfield Avenue.

Advertisement

Hardy's death was caused by a gunshot wound in the back, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner's office said Tuesday, adding the death was being classified a homicide.

"The man didn't even get to take two steps, and then he was shot in the back," a distraught Lofton said Tuesday afternoon at the Broadview home of Hardy's sister, Shilena Young.

Lofton said Hardy was shot as he started running across the street, tossing his gun away.

Police said they responded to the area after receiving a call of shots fired. Officers tried to stop Hardy, who they contend matched the description of the shooter.

But Hardy turned away, then pulled a gun from the back of his waistband and ran, police said. When officers shouted at him to stop, Hardy turned and pointed a gun at the officers, police said. One of the officers fired, and the bullet struck Hardy. A gun was recovered at the scene, police said.

Hardy was pronounced dead early Tuesday at Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood.

Police spokesman Roderick Drew said there "doesn't appear to be any wrongdoing" on the part of the officer who shot Hardy. But Drew added that the Independent Police Review Authority — which investigates shootings involving Chicago police officers — will make a formal conclusion. The officer, meanwhile, will remain on duty, Drew said.

Those gathered at Shilena Young's home said the police version of the shooting contradicts Hardy's peaceful nature.

Advertisement

"If a confrontation came up," said longtime friend Larry Lee, "he was the first guy to walk away and cross the street. He always avoided trouble."

Young said Hardy "was not the type of person who was a renegade. You wouldn't be afraid of him at all."

Young and Lofton said the shots that drew police were fired by another man who was trying to break up a fight by pointing the gun upward and pulling the trigger three times.

Born and raised in Chicago, Hardy enjoyed music and played the drums for a short time for church bands, said Devinley Young, Hardy's brother-in-law. Hardy attended Proviso West High School briefly, his sister said. Court records show Hardy was convicted on a drug-possession charge in 2000 and was arrested but not convicted on similar charges in 2006.

Two years ago, Hardy and his sister moved into homes next to each other on the 2000 block of South 15th Avenue in Broadview, Shilena Young said. Hardy has three young sons.

On Sunday, Hardy was sitting in his sister's kitchen, pressing his only nephew to finish high school, Young recalled.

Advertisement

"He said, 'I didn't stay in high school and I regret it. You need to graduate. Make sure you stay in school,'" Young said.

"We just want the truth of what happened," a tearful Young added. "If he was wrong, tell me. All I need is the truth so I can have some peace."

Tribune reporters Jeremy Gorner, Deanese Williams-Harris and William Lee contributed to this report.

tgregory@tribune.com