VINELAND

— An elderly city man was killed when a stolen sport-utility vehicle allegedly driven by a Bridgeton man crashed into his minivan at East Chestnut and Holmes avenues this morning.

The 2006 Dodge Durango SUV, which had Underwood-Memorial Hospital Mobile Intensive Care Unit shields on its doors, reportedly was stolen from Franklinville Fire Co.’s station in Franklin Township, Gloucester County, at about 8:25 a.m.

Authorities have identified the man killed in the crash as 81-year-old Alfred S. Costantino.

Michael A. Jones, 46, of East Commerce Street, Bridgeton, faces numerous criminal charges, including first-degree murder and aggravated manslaughter, in connection with the fatal crash, according to authorities.

He is being held in Cumberland County Jail on $750,000 bail.

Jones has an extensive criminal history, with most of his crimes committed in North Jersey. He was released from Southern State Correctional Facility, in Maurice River Township, on Aug. 29, 2009, after serving less than a year for eluding Essex County police in a motor vehicle in June 2004.

At around 9 a.m. today, Vineland police were notified by state police that the stolen Underwood-Memorial MICU SUV had possibly entered city limits.

A city police officer first spotted the white SUV on West Sherman Avenue, near South Jersey Healthcare-Regional Medical Center (RMC), Vineland Police Det. Lt. Thomas Ulrich said.

That officer began pursuing the vehicle, but lost sight of it. Two other officers spotted the vehicle — one at Delsea Drive and Chimes Terrace, the other at Delsea Drive and Chestnut Avenue — and initiated a pursuit.

The fatal crash occurred a short time after a police supervisor called off the pursuit, Ulrich said.

The Dodge SUV crashed into the driver’s side of Costantino’s red Plymouth Voyager minivan as it pulled onto Chestnut Avenue from Holmes Avenue, at about 9:15 a.m., pushing the minivan 50 to 60 yards east on Chestnut.

Costantino was pronounced dead at the scene.

Debris from the two vehicles littered the roadway, which was blocked off to traffic at least into the noon hour.

The stolen vehicle ran off the road following the collision, and Jones was taken into custody.

Jessica Cardona, who lives on Washington Avenue nearby where the fatal crash occurred, watched police remove Jones from the SUV, which she said appeared to be on fire, at gunpoint.

She remained at the crash scene two hours later, trying to make sense of what had happened.

“It just doesn’t seem right,” Cardona said. “Why would they steal that kind of car? For what?”

A witness to the chase indicated the SUV was being pursued along East Chestnut Avenue at speeds of roughly 90 mph.

Luis Rivas, 30, of Vineland, said the chase passed him as he was sitting in his minivan on State Street with his children waiting to turn onto Chestnut Avenue.

“It flew right past me,” he said. “It rocked my van from side to side.”

Vineland police were not commenting this afternoon on the speeds reached during the chase and were still waiting to review audio tapes to determine when the fatal accident occurred in relation to the police supervisor calling off the pursuit, Ulrich said.

Overnight, Franklin Township police stopped a blue 2002 Nissan Altima stolen from Bridgeton that reportedly had been involved in a crash in the Gloucester County town. Police managed to arrest a passenger, but the driver was able to flee on foot.

The Nissan had been stolen at around 2 a.m. Saturday.

A South Jersey Healthcare employee told police she found her car missing when she left SJH-Bridgeton Health Center — she believes the thief took her keys from her jacket, having chased a man from the Magnolia Avenue laundry building in which she was working at about 1:40 a.m.

Evidence was recovered today linking Jones to the stolen Nissan, Bridgeton Police Det. Lt. Michael Gaimari said.

Bridgeton police have charges pending against Jones in connection with the car theft.

Gaimari noted police have identified Jones as a suspect in a December 2009 credit-card theft and fraud case. He added that police recovered what is believed to be burglary booty from the stolen Nissan.

According to several sources, the driver of the stolen Underwood-Memorial SUV had made it down to the area around the Hamilton Mall this morning, then turned around and came into Vineland at speeds approaching 100 mph.

Jones was treated and released from RMC, where blood was drawn to determine whether he was under the influence of drugs or alcohol.

Ulrich noted Jones is facing criminal and traffic charges in multiple jurisdictions.

As of 5 p.m. today, Jones has been charged with first-degree murder and two counts of first-degree aggravated manslaughter — one count is for allegedly causing death while eluding police in a motor vehicle — according to Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae.

He also has been charged with single counts of second-degree vehicular homicide and second-degree eluding police in a motor vehicle, as well as unlawful taking of a means of conveyance, being unlicensed while involved in a fatal crash and two counts of aggravated assault.

Jones is scheduled to be arraigned before Superior Court Judge Robert Becker Wednesday afternoon.

The ongoing investigation is being conducted jointly by Vineland police and Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office investigators.

Staff Writer Jim Six contributed to this report.