An Austin mother says she heard the gunshots that killed her teenage son early Thursday. Moments later, a Chicago police officer responding to the sound of shots fatally wounded a man when he allegedly pointed a gun at the officer.

Jarren Lindsey, 16, was killed as he walked near his home with a cousin about 12:45 a.m. when two men ran up from behind and opened fire, said the cousin, Ahzami Hamilton.

Advertisement

The Independent Police Review Authority identified the man who was fatally shot by police as Reshird Lyles, 28, of the 700 block of North Leamington Avenue.

The two knew one another, according to Charlene Brooks, 55, who said she's been like a grandmother to Lyles. He worked at a dog-training center, she said.

Advertisement

Brooks said Lindsey and Lyles belonged to the same gang. Lindsey's mother, Avon, said she wasn't sure if her son was involved in a gang.

Police said plainclothes officers were patrolling around Pine Avenue and Huron Street due to "an ongoing gang conflict" in the neighborhood when they heard gunshots. Officers saw several people running away, one of them with a gun in his hand, police said. The officers ordered him to stop, but he ran through a gangway and into an alley, police said.

An officer approached the man and ordered him to drop the gun. The man pointed the gun at the officer and the officer shot him, police said. The department said a gun was recovered at the scene.

Officers then found Lindsey with a gunshot wound. He was pronounced dead at Mount Sinai Hospital.

Police would not say if the two deaths were linked.

Hamilton, 15, said he and his cousin had walked two girl friends to a bus stop and were nearing Lindsey's home on the 500 block of North Pine Avenue when the two "came up from behind."

"I never looked back," Hamilton said.

Lindsey was a 10th-grader at the Academy of Communications and Technology Charter School, said a Chicago Public Schools spokeswoman. Relatives remembered his playfulness and his love for rap music.

Advertisement

sedaniels@tribune.com