Chicago police inspect the shotgun recovered at the scene of a police-involved shooting Saturday morning on the Far South Side. (Abel Uribe/ Chicago Tribune)

A man died Saturday afternoon after being shot by Chicago police earlier in the day, officials said.

Dwight Jones, 50, of the 814 block of East 100th Street, was pronounced dead at 12:13 p.m. at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, according to a spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner's office.

Advertisement

The shooting occurred on the 200 block of East 114th Street in the West Pullman neighborhood about 11:15 a.m. Saturday, officials said.

Police responded to the scene after a report of a man with a gun, officials said. A shotgun could be seen on the street, officials said.

Advertisement

Witnesses on the scene said that they heard the man shooting off the shotgun at least three times before police responded with their weapons and shot the man.

In a preliminary statement on the shooting, police officials said they responded to a call of shots being fired in the area. When they arrived, they saw the man armed with a shotgun standing near the doorway of a health clinic, officials aid.

As police approached him, the man pointed the shotgun at his own chest and refused to drop the gun after police ordered him to do so, according to the statement.

When one of the officers tried to take the gun away from him, the man pointed the shotgun at the police. The police responded by shooting the man.

No officers were injured.

Curtis Tarver, a spokesman for the Independent Review Authority, said officials were investigating the shooting.

Chicago Fire Department officials said earlier they had taken Jones to the hospital Saturday morning and he was described as in critical condition.

This is the second fatal police-involved shooting in less than 24 hours. The first occurred on the 600 block of South Homan Avenue, where a 25-year-old man was pronounced dead at 11:50 p.m. Friday evening.

Advertisement

-- Carlos Sadovi and Abel Uribe