This story has been modified since its originalposting.

A Poway man said to have opened fire on his neighbor’s house onEaster Sunday, killing a husband and wife inside before he was shotdead by deputies, was described by neighbors Monday as aquarrelsome misanthrope with a long history of terrorizing theblock.

Advertisement

He apparently had been feuding for years with the family hetargeted Sunday.

The San Diego County medical examiner’s office identified theslain couple as Mitch Cunnyngham, 58, and wife Diane Cunnyngham,56.

The couple were longtime residents of the single-story home at13801 Olive Grove Place.

The gunman lived four houses down and across the street at13824, sheriff’s Lt. Dennis Brugos said.

Authorities had not provided the gunman’s name Monday night, butneighbors and other records identified him as Robert Clifford Reed,59, the homeowner who lived there since 1977.

He was a recluse who made appearances to protest noise, childrenor people parking at the curb in front of his house, neighborssaid.

“More than just this family were having problems with this man,”Brugos said.

‘Ongoing dispute’

Olive Grove Place, just a block off busy Community Road, is anormally quiet cul-de-sac of modest, single-family tract homesbuilt in the 1970s.

Brugos said that an “ongoing dispute” between Reed and theCunnynghams had perhaps prompted Sunday’s violence.

In May 2008, court records show Reed was arrested and chargedwith stabbing in the calf the Cunnynghams’ adult son, DavidCunnyngham, during an argument over parking on the street, butprosecutors dropped the charges after a successful preliminaryhearing.

District attorney spokesman Paul Levikow said Monday thatprosecutors dismissed the charges after “conflicting evidence cameto light” that made it unclear they could prove the case beyond areasonable doubt.

He did not say what that evidence was, but court records sayCunnyngham threw a toolbox at Reed during the argument, and atleast one neighbor testified that Cunnyngham had helped fuel theargument.

Civil court records show Reed sued the Cunnyngham family in 2001and 2008, alleging personal injury and harassment.

Details of the 2001 case were not available Monday.

The court rejected Reed’s 2008 attempt to get restraining ordersagainst the family, and David Cunnyngham sought attorney’s feesfrom Reed, court records show.

Reed filed his suit the day criminal charges against him weredropped, court records show.

Shots Fired

On Sunday evening, David Cunnyngham was at his parents’ housefor Easter dinner with his wife and 8-year-old daughter, Brugossaid.

He was outside about 6 p.m. when he saw Reed walking up thestreet, armed with a gun, Brugos said.

David Cunnyngham ran inside to warn his family. His wife anddaughter hid in the house.

His father, who eventually was shot and killed, armed himselfwith a handgun, Brugos said.

It was not clear whether he had returned fire.

The gunman shot through front windows, then entered the yardthrough a gate and continued shooting through the back of the home,Brugos said.

David Cunnyngham jumped through the front window during thegunfire to escape.

The first deputies to arrive were immediately confronted by thegunman coming out the side gate, Brugos said.

They ordered him to drop his weapon, a long-barreled shotgun,Brugos said.

Instead, he pointed it at the deputies, who both shot at him,Brugos said.

Reed died in the yard. Brugos said Reed also had a revolver withhim, and that both guns were used in the shooting.

Court records show that four crossbows and three guns wereseized from Reed’s home after his 2008 arrest.

Neighbors recall intimidation

Neighborhood kids were told to steer clear of Reed, said RobinSheriff, who lived for decades in a home whose yard borderedhis.

Her introduction to Reed came when her sons were 2 and 4 andtheir new rubber ball went over the fence into this yard, Sheriffsaid.

He refused to return it. Instead, while the boys watched infear, he retrieved a bow and arrow from the house and shot an arrowinto the ball, she said.

A few years later, she said, she was hosting a child’s party inher backyard when Reed came out.

“He started yelling every swear word I’ve ever heard in mylife,” Sheriff said.

Jim Seilhymer, 46, who has lived on Olive Grove Place for sixyears, said Reed was known for threatening anyone who parked onthe curb in front of his house and generally terrorizingeveryone.

“If you were crossing the street, he would steer his car towardsyou,” Seilhymer said. “He would come out and threaten everyone. Itdidn’t matter who you were.”

However, Seilhymer said Reed seemed to have a particular hatredfor the Cunnynghams and their adult son and two adultdaughters.

Seilhymer said Mitch and Diane “DeeDee” Cunnyngham weregenerous, kind people.

“They always opened their doors for meals and BBQs, and theywould go out of their way for you,” Seilhymer said.

It was not clear Sunday what Reed’s occupation was.

Seilhymer said Mitch Cunnyngham managed his brother’scontracting company, West Coast Installers, and DeeDee worked as anattendance clerk at a local elementary school.

Call staff writer Sarah Gordon at 760-740-3517.

CORRECTION: Poway woman lived in house, notyard

The original version of this story should have said that RobinSheriff lived in a home whose yard bordered the shootingsuspect’s.The story incorrectly said that Sheriff lived in heryard. We apologize.