Teen shot by deputies was gun expert



By Maggie Ybarra \ El Paso Times



Posted: 04/07/2010 12:00:00 AM MDT











The 14-year-old boy killed in a shootout Sunday was an experienced hunter with dreams of becoming a West Texas rancher, his mother said.







Anthony Lucas was raised to respect guns and hunting laws, Kay Lucas said Tuesday.







Lucas said her son had a strong moral compass that he used when he hunted. He shot only bucks and learned everything he could about hunting from magazines.







"He wasn't a reader," she said. "He hated school, but he would get those little hunting magazines and he'd read everything on those."







Anthony learned to use guns at a young age, Kay Lucas said.







"He got his first BB gun when he was 7 years old, and then we moved him up to a .22 (pistol)," she said. "We have a gun safe and an adult was with him the majority of the time."







Anthony had three stolen handguns with him the day he was shot by sheriff's de puties and state game wardens at Gunsight Ranch in Hudspeth County, Kay Lucas said.







But he was only using those guns to keep the officers at bay, she said.







"If he had wanted to shoot those officers and hit them, he would have," she said. "He knew he was a good shot, and a majority of those officers knew him and knew he was."







Hudspeth County Sheriff Arvin West said Tuesday that Anthony had been shooting at the officers from the roof of a barn, and that officers fired back in self-defense.







Anthony had been reported missing by his parents earlier that day.







Reports varied on the types of guns the teen used during the shootout. West said Monday that Anthony had a handgun and a rifle. On Tuesday, West said Anthony had "several guns." Kay Lucas said her son had two .22-caliber pistols and a .25-caliber handgun.







Kay Lucas said that no other people were endangered during the shootout and that if the officers had left Anthony alone, he would have eventually become hungry, tired or taken his pills.







Before the shooting, Anthony had broken into two homes at the Gunsight Ranch, Kay Lucas said.







"He broke a window and he went into Kevin Jessup's house, took a shower and ate a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, and tried to watch a Western movie but couldn't get the VCR to work," she said.







Anthony took the guns during the break-ins, she said.







When law enforcement officers found her son, he pointed one of the guns at them and told them to get away. He shot at them to scare them off, Kay Lucas said.







West said the officers backed away from Anthony and returned to their patrol cars, and that's when Anthony started shooting at them.







The decision to kill Anthony was made only after he endangered an officer's life, West said.







Anthony was standing on a barn roof and the officers were on the ground near a horse trailer about 30 yards from the barn when he was killed, West said.







"They decided they had to stop him before he shot that officer," he said.







West said his officers were devastated by the shooting death.







"They're not OK," he said. "That's not something any officer wants to do –– take the life of a child."







Before the shooting, officers had taken Kay Lucas out to the site in an attempt to calm Anthony.







Anthony's mother pleaded with him over a PA system, but he eventually fired a shot at her, too, West said.







Kay Lucas said her son's hearing impairment might have hindered his ability to understand what the police wanted from him.







He had tubes put in his ears twice and sometimes had to focus on lip movements to get the gist of what someone was saying. He also had bad vision and took medicine for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, Kay Lucas said.







She said he was not taking his medicine before the shooting.







Perhaps if Anthony had been on his medicine, the situation would have ended differently, said Joseph Elder, a local store owner.







Elder, 33, said Anthony was a "wild little country boy" who liked to hunt rabbits and live on the land.







But without his medicine, he was unpredictable, Elder said.







"In a way, he was like a little coyote," he said. "He knew how to take care of himself ... but he got off his medication, and he had been off his medication going on two days, and that's too long."







Elder said the circumstances surrounding the shooting death of Anthony were tragic.







"He was scared to death," he said, "and the officers were probably scared to death, too."

Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaand the mother weighs in!