The bank robber who caused the crash that killed two women while he was fleeing from police was sentenced two life sentences without the possibility of parole.Jeremiah Jackson learned his sentence on Monday morning. He was convicted of crashing into a car carrying Kim Aragon Nunez and Janice Flores while he tried to escape authorities after a bank robbery on April 6, 2010.The victims' families told the judge Monday that Jackson gave them a life sentence when he killed the two women."It breaks my heart that there are five children (who) will have to live without their moms for the rest of their lives," Nunez's mother, Joyce Aragon, said.Jackson said he didn't have money to feed his children, and that's why he robbed the bank. He insisted the crash was an accident and said he grieves over the losses, as well.The families said they didn't buy it and were glad that justice was served."(We will) try to move on, do the things that we need to do, just looking out for our granddaughters and the best interest for both of them. For the rest of our family, hopefully, we'll start to heal," Flores' father, Abram Flores, said.The crash has also affected the bank tellers who gave up the money. In a letter to the judge, one teller said she feels guilty for putting the tracker in the bag, believing the two women might be alive if the tracker hadn't sparked a police chase.

The bank robber who caused the crash that killed two women while he was fleeing from police was sentenced two life sentences without the possibility of parole.



Jeremiah Jackson learned his sentence on Monday morning. He was convicted of crashing into a car carrying Kim Aragon Nunez and Janice Flores while he tried to escape authorities after a bank robbery on April 6, 2010.



Advertisement

The victims' families told the judge Monday that Jackson gave them a life sentence when he killed the two women.



"It breaks my heart that there are five children (who) will have to live without their moms for the rest of their lives," Nunez's mother, Joyce Aragon, said.





Jackson said he didn't have money to feed his children, and that's why he robbed the bank. He insisted the crash was an accident and said he grieves over the losses, as well.



The families said they didn't buy it and were glad that justice was served.



"(We will) try to move on, do the things that we need to do, just looking out for our granddaughters and the best interest for both of them. For the rest of our family, hopefully, we'll start to heal," Flores' father, Abram Flores, said.



The crash has also affected the bank tellers who gave up the money. In a letter to the judge, one teller said she feels guilty for putting the tracker in the bag, believing the two women might be alive if the tracker hadn't sparked a police chase.