SANTA ANA – A 19-year-old man had a gun in his hand and was on the run after stealing a woman’s purse when he was shot and killed by Santa Ana police officer Tuesday, authorities said. Another man was arrested.

Marcus Sulusi Tagatauli of Garden Grove was shot just once in the thigh Tuesday night, said Santa Ana police Cpl. Anthony Bertagna. The bullet apparently hit a major artery, and Tagatauli died at a hospital.

Tagatauli’s alleged accomplice, Alexander Lamont Talauega, 19, is being held on suspicion of felony attempted robbery, robbery and assault with a deadly weapon, Bertagna said.

In addition to other crimes, Talauega may also be eligible to be charged with felony murder in Tagatauli’s death. Under California’s felony murder law, if certain inherently dangerous felony crimes results in a death, anyone suspected in the crime can also be charged with murder. That decision will be up to Orange County prosecutors.

The officer-involved shooting is the fourth of the year for Santa Ana police. The shootings left two robbery suspects dead, including Talauega. Two other men were wounded by police.

Tuesday’s shooting brought an end to a series of events that began with two men walking into a Santa Ana Subway with a gun.

Around 8:15 p.m., a worker at a Subway sandwich store on South Bristol called police to report two suspicious men walked in, Santa Ana police Cmdr. Jeff Owens said. One of them had a gun, the worker told police.

But the two men left without robbing the store, Owens said.

Minutes later, police were called to El Metate Market on Bristol Street for a report of armed men in the back of the store, Bertagna said.

According to police, the two men walked into El Metate and grabbed a purse from a woman shopping with her husband, Bertagna said.

The woman’s husband fought with the men but backed off when he noticed one of them was carrying a gun, Bertagna said. A security guard heard the scuffle and chased the men, but he too backed off when he saw the gun, Bertagna said.

The store manager saw what was going on and managed to lock the two men in the back of the store before calling police, Bertagna said. But the two men escaped from the store.

Officers saw two men matching the description of the robbers running down the 1500 block of West Occidental Street. Officers arrested one of the men, later identified as Talauega. But Tagatauli refused to listen to officer’s orders, Bertagna said.

One officer fired several shots, hitting Tagatauli once in the thigh, Bertagna said. He later died.

The District Attorney’s Office is investigating the officer-involved shooting, Bertagna said. The officer involved in the shooting is on paid administrative leave, which is standard procedure for the Santa Ana Police Department.

Contact the writer: 714-704-3709 or desalazar@ocregister.com