Dominique Smith's cousin was inside their grandmother's home early Wednesday when she heard someone outside yell, "Get down!"

About five gunshots followed, she said.

Lexus Smith, 17, said she ran outside. But before she could get far, she said she saw her wounded cousin looking up and heard him utter his final words, "That's my cousin Lexus. This is my grandma's house."

Lexus Smith said she recalls hearing a San Antonio police officer telling her to get back inside the house. She also remembers seeing two patrol cars behind him - neither of which had its lights on.

Dominique Smith, 20, was shot and killed after failing to obey repeated orders when he was stopped in front of his grandmother's house on the city's East Side, authorities said.

Instead of complying with demands to show his hands, police said the man kept moving toward the two officers with his hands hidden in the front pockets of his sweatshirt.

Police spokesman Sgt. Chris Benavides said Smith put Officer Emanuel Keith and Officer Christopher Hetrick in a situation in which they feared for their safety.

But a devastated Smith family asked Wednesday why deadly force was needed. Police did not find a weapon at the scene, according to a police spokesman. And relatives said there's also the troubling question of why the patrol car didn't have its lights on or its siren wailing.

"It doesn't make sense to us," said another cousin, Shawnda Smith-Woodard. "I'm devastated. It's a shock and unbelievable."

The shooting occurred just after 3 a.m. at Kay Ann and Carol Crest streets. The two officers followed Dominique Smith there from W.W. White Road after learning the 1986 Cadillac he was driving had been reported stolen, according to a police report.

Keith, a 15-year Police Department veteran, and Hetrick, a 13-week probationary officer, were placed on administrative duty while an investigation of the shooting is conducted, per department policy protocol.

Police said two other men were inside the car with Dominique Smith. The officers called for backup when they realized the car was reported stolen, the report said. Authorities also acknowledged the officers, who were in the same patrol car, followed the Cadillac without lights or sirens.

It wasn't until Dominique Smith parked that the officers pulled up behind him and turned on their lights, Benavides said.

The officers told Dominique Smith to show his hands, which were in the front pockets of a sweatshirt, a news release said. Instead, he reached back into the car. When he stood up, he again wouldn't show his hands, authorities said.

Dominique Smith "aggressively charged" the officers and when he refused to stop, both Keith and Hetrick fired, the police report said. Dominique Smith was hit in the torso and died just outside the driver's side door, family members said. His two passengers were detained and questioned. One was arrested on a municipal warrant and the other was released, according to the police report. He returned to the scene but declined to comment.

Smith-Woodard said she learned about the shooting from her relatives. She said her cousin wanted to become a writer and was known by his family as being funny and warm.

Although her brother was popular, Kree Smith, 17, said he had gotten caught up in the wrong crowd that kept him from graduating from high school.

Dominique Smith did have a criminal history in Bexar County dating back to 2007. He faced multiple burglary charges and a charge for possession of marijuana, according to court records.

But her brother's past didn't change Kree Smith's view of him. She said they would talk about the future, and she knew he wanted to get his life back on track.

"He died for nothing," she said. "He didn't even get to experience his life."