An off-duty Chicago police officer shot and killed a Riverdale man who authorities said tried breaking into the South Side apartment building owned by the officer.

Darryl Ellis, 44, died Monday after he was shot multiple times outside of a multi-unit building in the 7500 block of South Champlain Avenue in the city's Chatham neighborhood. Police say Ellis swung a tire iron at the officer after the officer caught him trying to force his way inside.

Advertisement

After hearing loud noises at the rear of his building, police said the unidentified officer opened his rear door to find Ellis standing on a rear porch with the tire iron. After pulling his handgun and announcing his office, Ellis swung the tire iron at the officer, leading the officer to open fire, striking Ellis multiple times, said Dana Alexander, deputy chief of the police's Calumet Area.

Neighbor David Hatwood said he rushed to the scene and saw the officer holding a gun as he stood over the downed, moaning man.

Advertisement

"I said, 'What happened, what happened?'" Hatwood said. The officer replied: "That guy tried to break into my house."

A day after the shooting, Ellis' mother, Sharon Loston spent the entire night awake, too weary to cry and trying to make sense of her middle child's death.

Ellis' family complained that they received few details about what led up to the from police.

"They (the police) didn't even tell me it's a police officer (who shot him). I heard it from the news this morning," Loston said.

"I feel like they want to keep us out of knowledge of what was going on," said Ellis' older brother William, 47. "There are too many missed pieces."

Despite Ellis' history of drug addiction, his family said they couldn't believe he would try to hurt anyone.

"We've never had a fight," his brother said. "He did have some problems with drugs. But as far as being the type to attack? No."

Court records show that Ellis had more than two dozen arrests, with convictions for burglary and receiving/possessing stolen goods. In 1987, Ellis was convicted of misdemeanor battery.

Advertisement

The shooting is being investigated by the Independent Police Review Authority.

Tribune reporters Andrew Wang, Serena Daniels and Lei Lei contributed to this report.