Donovan Morris, a 34-year-old black man, was shot and killed by an LAPD officer Monday, May 10, in the 21000 block of Victory Boulevard in Canoga Park, authorities said.

The shooting took place more than three hours after Long Beach police responding to a domestic abuse call discovered Morris' wife, Ivy Bodkins, a 29-year-old white woman, dead from a gunshot wound to the head.

Officers called to the scene at a downtown Long Beach apartment building learned from a family member that Morris had forced his wife out of the home at gunpoint.

While investigating, officers received a report that a woman's body had been found in the underground parking structure of the complex. Bodkins was pronounced dead at the scene, according to coroner's records.

During the investigation, Long Beach police obtained information that Morris was staying at a family member’s residence in Woodland Hills.

Investigators requested the assistance of the Los Angeles Police Department, who located Morris' vehicle based on information provided in a radio call from Long Beach police, said Capt. Kris Pitcher, commanding officer of the LAPD Force Investigation Unit.

Police followed Morris' vehicle to a Best Buy in Canoga Park, Pitcher said. According to Pitcher, Morris exited the car and turned toward police holding a handgun. At that point, an officer fired at Morris, fatally wounding him, Pitcher said. There was no indication Morris fired his weapon during the incident with police, and a preliminary investigation found that Morris’ gunshot wounds came from the officer’s weapon, authorities said.

Morris was taken to Northridge Hospital Medical Center, where he died at 11:36 a.m., according to coroner's record.

[For the record: The coroner's office initially incorrectly reported that Morris' shooting occurred near Victory Boulevard and Tampa Avenue about five blocks from the actual location. ]

-- Sarah Ardalani

Top photo: Donovan Morris. Credit: DMV. Bottom photo: Donovan Morris lays on the ground after being shot by police. Credit: KTLA