The parents of Keaton Dupree Otis said Friday their son was a typical teenager until he was diagnosed in 2004 with a mood disorder that led him to struggle with life and contributed to a fatal shootout with Portland police.

Felesia and Joseph Otis indicated in a statement that they wanted to get help for their son, but were stymied by "limited options and restrictive laws preventing families from intervening earlier."

"It is his progressive illness is what has us here today. ... In the future we want to expand the law's definition of harm to self or others for a civil commitment to include additional significant symptoms," they said in a statement.

Otis, who lived in North Portland with his mother and stepfather, died Wednesday night near Lloyd Center in a hail of gunfire that left Officer Christopher Burley shot once in each leg. Burley was released Friday from Legacy Emanuel Medical Center.

Two members of the Hotspot Enforcement Action Team, which focuses on preventing gang violence, tried to pull Otis over near Northeast Grand Avenue and Holladay Street for traffic infractions. Instead of stopping, Otis kept driving, police say. They trailed him, with their siren and lights on and air horn blasting, in a pursuit that ended at Northeast Sixth Avenue near Halsey Street.

More

»

»

Two police cars boxed in his car, officers approached, and Otis started shouting profanities at them, police said. Officers shot him twice with a Taser, and they said he then reached for a gun and shot Burley. Otis, who never got out of the car, died from multiple gunshot wounds to the chest, the Oregon medical examiner's office said Friday.

Police said they found no evidence of gang affiliations. Otis had a 2007 traffic citation on his record.

Friends said Otis was quiet and mild-mannered.

"All throughout my life, he just told me, he would keep reminding me, 'Don't mess with guns,'" said Jimmy Jimenez, whose older brother Daniel was Otis' best friend. "'They're not worth it. You can die from it, you can kill someone, you can go to jail for the rest of your life.'"

Other friends painted a similar picture of a low-key man who enjoyed his friends.

"Keaton was a very, very quiet person," said Jesika Diaz, 27, who knew Otis for about five years and briefly dated him. "He just enjoyed what we were doing."

She said she had not seen him for about nine months but remembered many occasions when he would pop over with other friends and enjoy a backyard barbecue.

"We watched movies and had beers and would hang out," she said. "He would say funny things that came to mind."

Otis was raised in Northeast Portland and attended Buckman Elementary School with Chalise Lewis, 24.

"I rode the school bus with him every day from kindergarten to fifth grade," she said. "He had many friends, and everybody liked him."

She said on weekends she often saw Otis in Oregon Park throwing a football with his father.

He later went to Hosford Middle School in Southeast Portland where he met Daniel Jimenez in sixth grade.

"We got together every day after school," said Jimenez, 25. "He liked to get out and do things."

Although Jimenez went on to Franklin High and Otis attended Benson, they kept in close touch.

Otis ended up dropping out of the Alliance High School, an alternative school in Northeast Portland, as a senior in 2003, said Matt Shelby, spokesman for Portland Public Schools.

Otis' biggest passion in life was his colorful artwork that he painted on clothing. Jimenez said he had a hoodie that Otis decorated with squiggles and designs. Otis put designs on T-shirts as well, which he sold to friends.

He was the only son of Felesia and Joseph Otis. His mother is program director of the Women's Residential Center at Volunteers of America Oregon and is a part-time instructor at Portland Community College. Joseph Otis is a surgical services technician at Oregon Heath & Science University.

Their son is the third person shot to death by Portland police this year.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with Officer Burley and other officers involved," the Otises said in their statement.

Of their son, they said: "He loved his family and daily told his parents that he loved them! As a small child he had many friends from diverse cultures. He attended Benson High School majoring in architectural graphic design. He was a Junior Achiever and a Prospective Gent, an organization for African American males emphasizing educational excellence and community service.

"He took a walk-on spot in a Harrison Ford movie that was filmed here in Portland. He designed T-shirts and clothing. He was an artist, and had an entrepreneurial spirit."

--