Miriam “Mary” Olivo tried to distance herself from her boyfriend after a couple of months of dating, but police said he came back into her life Wednesday, carrying a Bible and a gun.

Although a San Jose police officer desperately tried to persuade him not to, the man shot Olivo and himself to death.

The shooting was the city’s 11th homicide.

Police on Thursday detailed what they believe is a murder-suicide, including the identification of the 30-year-old victim. They have not yet identified the suspect, pending notification of next of kin. But sources have identified him as Shon Box, 40.

Shortly before noon Wednesday, an armed man burst into the two-story townhome, according to police.

Police said Olivo “had made a change” in their relationship the previous weekend.

It was unclear Thursday whether the breakup or separation sparked the slaying, but police are working along that line of inquiry, sources said.

When police arrived, they began evacuating the crowded residential neighborhood to make sure any stray bullets would not strike anyone.

At one point, an officer spotted the suspect looking out an upstairs window with a gun aimed at his own head.

“I’m right here, (expletive)!” he reportedly called out to the officer.

Then, more than once, he told the officer that he was going to kill himself, according to police.

The officer, who had taken cover, called up to him to try to persuade him to surrender peacefully, to no avail.

Then a few minutes later, Olivo appeared at the window.

“I’m OK. I’m OK,” she told the officer. The officer tried to engage Olivo in an extended conversation.

But she went silent as well.

Soon afterward, two shots rang out.

Police tried to establish contact by shouting up to the window and through a bullhorn.

When there was no response, special operations officers entered the home. They found the bodies at 3:29 p.m. Anyone with information on the incident can contact the San Jose police homicide unit at 408-277-5283. Anonymous tips may be left at Silicon Valley Crime Stoppers at 408-947-STOP (7867.)

Contact Sean Webby at 408-920-5003.