Police are crediting an apartment security guard for calling 9-1-1 when he heard screams, possibly saving the life of a woman repeatedly stabbed by her husband early Wednesday.

The guard, Jay Plumley of the Beaverton-based Arcadia Security Department, called police after hearing a woman's cries for help from an upstairs unit at Monterey Springs Apartments in the Clackamas area west of Happy Valley. Plumley, who was patrolling the complex shortly after midnight, followed the cries to Apartment B-203, then knocked on the door.

When he realized a life-or-death situation was brewing, he backed off and called for help.

"She probably would be dead if he didn't call," said Detective Jim Strovink, Clackamas County sheriff's spokesman.

View Larger Map

While deputies were on their way, 9-1-1 dispatchers received a call from the stabbing victim, who managed to barricade herself in the back of the apartment.

When two deputies arrived, they were confronted in an apartment building stairwell by the husband, Andrew Michael Meade, 23, who brandished a knife. Meade advanced "in attack mode," ignored repeated warnings to stop, and the deputies shot him, Strovink said. Police then entered the bloody apartment and rescued the woman.

Meade was rushed to OHSU Hospital, where he died about 2:30 a.m. Cause of death was three gunshot wounds to the torso, according to an autopsy by the Oregon State Medical Examiners Office.

His 25-year-old wife, whose name was not released, was rushed to Emanuel Hospital & Health Center, where she was reported in serious condition with multiple stab wounds.

"The doctors are optimistically encouraged," Strovink said. "She is showing some improvement."

Names of the deputies are not yet available. Both were automatically placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated by the Clackamas County Inter Agency Crime Team.

Strovink said the victim is not yet able to talk to police, and what led to the stabbing remains a mystery.

The apartment complex at 8640 S.E. Causey Ave, formerly known as Wellington Springs Apartments and Watermark Square, has a history of violent crime, Strovink said.

--