Andrew Caprio, a 42-year-old white man, was shot and killed by police Monday, May 24, on the 101 Freeway near the Van Nuys Boulevard exit in Sherman Oaks, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

LAPD Officer Carlos Ayala and his partner were patrolling the Hollenbeck Area shortly before 1 a.m. when they saw Caprio speeding past them in a Mercedes Benz 300E Sedan, according to a police news release.

Caprio was described as driving erratically and committing several traffic violations. Believing he was possibly under the influence of drugs or alcohol, Ayala and his partner attempted to make a traffic stop. However, Caprio refused to pull over. He then led the officers on a pursuit that continued through Los Angeles, South Pasadena, Monrovia and back into the City of Los Angeles, police said.

Toward the end of the pursuit, Caprio drove west on the 101 Freeway. As he approached the Van Nuys Boulevard off-ramp, he failed to steer through a curve in the freeway and collided with the guard rail, causing his vehicle to spin out of control, authorities said.

Caprio then hit the center divider and another vehicle traveling in the same direction. Police said both cars eventually came to a stop in the fast lane of the freeway adjacent to the Van Nuys Boulevard off-ramp.

After the vehicles stopped, Officer Ayala and his partner positioned their car near Caprio’s, along with a backup unit including Officer Jeremy Wagner and his partner.

As the four officers were getting out of their vehicles, police said Caprio also emerged holding a large knife. They said he then focused his attention on one of the officers and allegedly began to throw the knife at the officer. At that point Ayala fired one round from his .40-caliber Glock duty weapon and Wagner fired a shot from a department-issued 12-gauge shotgun.

The officer whom Caprio was aiming to strike with the knife suffered an injury as he attempted to block the knife’s impact. He was taken to a local hospital where he was treated and released.

Caprio was hit by gunfire and also taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead at 2:12 a.m., according to coroner's records.

-- Sarah Ardalani