A man is dead after allegedly pointing a gun at a Belen police officer."I walked out to my front gate and looked down. All of these squad cars were there," said neighbor Peggy Hainsworth.The normally quiet neighborhood was not so quiet Friday night."My sister lives over on Third Street and she claims she heard three shots," Hainsworth said.Police were called out to a party where two men were fighting.State police Lt. Eric Garcia said the men wouldn't stop even after officers showed up."The male subject brandished a firearm, a sawed-off rifle to be exact," Garcia said.Garcia said police yelled at 29-year-old Benjamin Tellez, but said Tellez didn't listen."Supervisor Sgt. Gerald Espinosa asked him to drop the weapon. He failed to do it. He subsequently shot the subject. He later on died," Garcia said."I don't like it happening on our block," said neighbor Chela Gore.Tellez was shot in the chest and died before arriving at the hospital.State police are handling the investigation because a Belen officer shot Tellez, but Garcia said the sergeant did what he needed to do to protect himself."If the subject does not drop their firearm, and they brandish it towards the police officer, we have to take safety precautions for ourselves and the community around us," Garcia said.Espinoza is on routine paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

A man is dead after allegedly pointing a gun at a Belen police officer.

"I walked out to my front gate and looked down. All of these squad cars were there," said neighbor Peggy Hainsworth.

Advertisement

The normally quiet neighborhood was not so quiet Friday night.

"My sister lives over on Third Street and she claims she heard three shots," Hainsworth said.

Police were called out to a party where two men were fighting.

State police Lt. Eric Garcia said the men wouldn't stop even after officers showed up.

"The male subject brandished a firearm, a sawed-off rifle to be exact," Garcia said.

Garcia said police yelled at 29-year-old Benjamin Tellez, but said Tellez didn't listen.

"Supervisor Sgt. Gerald Espinosa asked him to drop the weapon. He failed to do it. He subsequently shot the subject. He later on died," Garcia said.

"I don't like it happening on our block," said neighbor Chela Gore.

Tellez was shot in the chest and died before arriving at the hospital.

State police are handling the investigation because a Belen officer shot Tellez, but Garcia said the sergeant did what he needed to do to protect himself.

"If the subject does not drop their firearm, and they brandish it towards the police officer, we have to take safety precautions for ourselves and the community around us," Garcia said.

Espinoza is on routine paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.