JO MORELAND

Staff Writer

FALLBROOK -- A Fallbrook man suspected of being under theinfluence of drugs fought his way out of the Fallbrook Sheriff’sStation on Saturday, suffered medical distress after he wascaptured and died, sheriff’s deputies said.

Advertisement

Officers had taken James Burton Allen, 36, into custody a fewhours earlier after the man’s father said his son was actingirrationally and had stolen his wallet, according to Lt. GregReynolds.

Sheriff’s homicide detectives and the medical examiner areinvestigating the death. A medical examiner’s investigator saidSunday that the cause of death wasn’t yet available.

A man at the Allens’ family home on Vantage Place said thefamily wasn’t commenting.

It was the second custody death in less than 24 hours for theSheriff’s Department.

A Vista jail prisoner suffered medical distress Friday night andwas pronounced dead Saturday morning at Tri-City Medical Center,authorities said. The man’s name wasn’t being released, pendingnotification of relatives.

In the Fallbrook case, Allen was taken into custody after hisfather called deputies about 4:30 p.m. Saturday, Reynolds said. Thelieutenant said deputies arrested Allen on suspicion of being underthe influence of drugs and took him to the Fallbrook station.

At 7:55 p.m., Reynolds said, a forensic nurse arrived to draw ablood sample from Allen, who was still acting erratically.

“Three deputies entered the cell to assist with the blood draw,”said Reynolds. “Allen began yelling and screaming and managed tofight his way out of the station.”

Allen escaped, running toward Main Avenue a block away, thelieutenant said, with deputies chasing him. One deputy fired a beanbag gun four times at Allen, but it wasn’t known if any of the bagshit him, Reynolds said.

He said deputies caught up with Allen in the 100 block of SouthMain, wrestled him to the ground and handcuffed him.

North County Fire Department paramedics were taking Allen to theFallbrook Hospital for detoxification so he could be booked intothe Vista jail, Reynolds said.

Within minutes after they arrived, the lieutenant said, fire andmedical personnel realized Allen had gone into cardiac arrest.

Dr. Charles Norton of Fallbrook Hospital pronounced him dead at8:29 p.m. Saturday, Reynolds said.

Contact staff writer Jo Moreland at (760) 901-4085 orjmoreland@nctimes.com.

5/7/01