ALTADENA – A 60-year-old man killed in a standoff with deputies died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, coroner’s officials said Thursday.

A deputy fired at least two rounds at Andres Paul Perez-Fraga of Altadena after encountering him holding a gun and threatening suicide at about 9:30 p.m. June 10 in the 2800 block of Santa Rosa Avenue, but both shots missed, sheriff’s and coroners officials said.

“We don’t see any indication that he was hit by any of the deputies who were there,” coroner’s Cpt. John Kades said of the autopsy results. “It’s a suicide. It was a contact wound consistent with someone placing the gun to their head and pulling the trigger.”

No other gunshot wounds were found on his body during the autopsy, Kades said.

Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department spokesman Steve Whitmore last week said one deputy fired two shots at Perez-Fraga after he pointed his gun at deputies.

Perez-Fraga’s girlfriend, Mary Jo Landi, who prefers to be called Corn Woman, said the night he was killed she and Perez-Fraga had argued before he walked out of the house carrying a gun.

She said she called authorities and reported that Perez-Fraga might harm himself.

“I didn’t want to see this happen,” she said. “I wanted him to be stopped.”

John Hopkins, Perez-Fraga’s friend, who went to scene after the shooting, said he believes deputies over-reacted when they drew their weapons and surrounded the armed man.

“They treated him as a corner criminal, as opposed to a despondent man thinking about suicide,” he said.

Whitmore said that no additional information about the investigation into the shooting would be released Thursday, including the names of the deputies involved and the number of shots fired.

“I’m not going to get into that. It’s an ongoing investigation,” he said.

Hopkins described Perez-Fraga as a gun enthusiast who owned several firearms. Perez-Fraga had brought up the idea of suicide before last week’s incident, Hopkins said.

“He’s had a history of talking about suicide and being depressed,” said Hopkins.

nathan.mcintire@sgvn.com

626-578-6300, ext. 4475