Advertisement Officer-Involved Shooting Leaves One Man Dead Man Had Been Walking Around Neighborhood Firing Gun, Neighbors Say Share Copy Link Copy

A man is dead after a police shooting in northeast Albuquerque.A man is shot to death after police said he came toward officers armed with a rifle and had been drinking.On Thursday night, Albuquerque police were called out to the Northeast Heights near Juan Tabo Boulevard and Spain Avenue after several calls from neighbors said a man -- later identified by police as Chris Hinz, 43 -- who had been drinking was walking around outside his house, firing his gun in the air.When officers arrived at the house, they found the garage door open with gun casings inside a bottle of liquor. Investigators said they could hear more gunshots being fired from inside the house. When officers tried to make contact with Hinz, he refused to come outside, police said.After some time, police said, Hinz exited his garage carrying a rifle and walked toward officers. Police said the officers felt it was necessary to take action. Police Chief Ray Schultz said one shot was fired, killing Hinz.Schultz said they are continuing to investigate the incident.Police said Hinz had one prior DWI charge outside of Albuquerque.The two officers involved in Thursday night's shooting are now on standard paid leave.Friend Describes Hinz Angela Durham, a close family friend of Hinz, described Hinz' sbattle with alcoholism and his devotion to his daughter.Durham said Hinz was a loyal friend and devoted father to his only child, 18-year-old Krystal Hinz."He wasn't just a friend for me, he was like a big brother," said Durham. "I've lost my big brother now."Durham said she's been friends with Hinz for over 12 years. Their daughters were classmates and cheerleaders together at Eldorado High School. She said Hinz was a loving father who was also a recovering alcoholic, working to stay sober for his daughter."When we had functions, he did not drink," said Durham. "And he was really working because of his love for his daughter."Police said they'd had calls of service to the Hinz home before and that Thursday night, Hinz was also under the influence before he was killed.But now his daughter -- who Hinz raised while being a single parent -- is orphaned."He did everything for her," said Durham. "His life revolved around Krystal."Action 7 News spoke to a neighbor who called 911 after Hinz began firing shots inside his home. The neighbor said she called 911 to get help for Hinz, but never thought the incident would end up the way it did.