Adam D. Young

First appeared on lubbockonline.com: 6 p.m. Wednesday.

After an hourlong standoff with police, a Lubbock man shot himself to death on the front porch of his house Wednesday afternoon in Central Lubbock.

Police cordoned off several blocks surrounding the house in the 4700 block of 29th Street for more than an hour after receiving a phone call just before 4 p.m. about a man armed with a handgun who was threatening to kill himself, said Lubbock police Sgt. Tommy Mora.

Police found Matthew Colbert, 23, standing on the home's front porch pointing a .357-caliber handgun at his body, Mora said.

Colbert, who lived in the house, contacted his family on the phone and talked with police negotiators, who were positioned near the house, before shooting himself about 5 p.m. on the porch.

He was taken to University Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead by 5:30 p.m. Nobody else was in the home at the time of the shooting, Mora said.

Though Colbert did not threaten police officers or other people during the incident, police cordoned off several streets as a precaution, he said.

Nearly 20 police vehicles, ambulances and other emergency vehicles were positioned within a block of Colbert's house during the standoff.

Mora said police notified the Lubbock Regional Mental Health Mental Retardation Center about Colbert during the standoff, though he was not sure if specialists from the center were able to respond before Colbert died.

Lt. Neal Barron said Lubbock police homicide investigators were investigating the death to gather evidence and information from the scene, though they believe his death was self-inflicted.

"It's not something we're going to walk away from without making sure everything's in order," he said.

Mora said he wasn't aware of any motives for committing suicide Colbert may have told police.

To comment on this story:

adam.young@lubbockonline.com l 766-8725

james.ricketts@lubbockonline.com l 766-8706

PEOPLE/23-year-old man fatally shoots self; motive for the death still unknown