HILLSBORO -- The man fatally shot by Hillsboro police last week inside a closed restaurant owned the business along with his wife, who was found stabbed to death.

About 9:20 p.m. Thursday, a police officer responded to a call at JP Cuisine and found Jocelyn Pabingwit, 46, bleeding from stab wounds; paramedics later pronounced her dead at the scene, said Lt. Mike Rouches, a Hillsboro police spokesman.

The officer shot her husband, Diosdado Pabingwit, 51, who was advancing on the officer with a bloody knife, Rouches said. He was later pronounced dead at OHSU Hospital.

Police believe the incident might be a domestic violence case, but an investigation was continuing.

The name of the officer involved will not be released until after he is interviewed Tuesday by Washington County Major Crimes Team investigators, Rouches said. The officer, a three-year veteran of the department, has never been involved in a shooting before and has no disciplinary issues.

Neighbors said Monday that they never observed any problems with the family or at their residence on Southeast Tumblestone Drive.

Rouches said the officer was responding to an incomplete 9-1-1 call at the restaurant inside a minimall at

. The officer found Jocelyn Pabingwit behind a counter, Rouches said.

Before the officer could check her condition, Diosdado Pabingwit came from the back of the restaurant and raised a knife, Rouches said. He refused orders to drop it and advanced on the officer, who fired his gun when the man came within six to eight feet, Rouches said

"He was within a complete lunging zone from the officer," he said. "He certainly could jump forward pretty quickly."

Diosdado Pabingwit was shot at least once in the torso, Rouches said. He was taken by Life Flight helicopter to OHSU Hospital. The officer was not injured.

The couple appeared to be closing up the restaurant, which shut at 8:30 p.m., Rouches said. Hillsboro police did not have any prior history with the couple or the restaurant, he said. Family members did not wish to comment Monday.

The restaurant was incorporated in July 2008 in Jocelyn Pabingwit's name, according to state records.

Michael Buck, who has lived two houses down from the Pabingwits for about 10 years, said the family was "trying everything they could to make the business work."

The Pabingwits were "friendly and happy" people at both their restaurant and home, Buck said. "He was always smiling, and she was always laughing," he said. "I never saw any bit of anger in either of them."

For years, Buck said he and the Pabingwit family would exchange gifts at Christmas time. Buck said the Pabingwits have three children and also lived with other members of their extended family.

He said he was shocked when he learned of the incident.

"I watched their kids grow up," he said. "I'll miss them – it's just a rough thing, a hard thing to grasp."

–