Valerie Berlanga had just finished cleaning her West Side kitchen after a Father's Day barbecue Sunday night when her father began threatening her boyfriend with a knife and she had to call police.

After a struggle on the stairs, Domingo Berlanga, 54, was fatally shot by a San Antonio police officer, the sixth fatal officer-involved shooting this year.

Shot once in the head, Berlanga was taken to University Hospital, where he was pronounced dead just after midnight, the Bexar County medical examiner's office said.

Valerie Berlanga's two children were at the home in the 1200 block of San Luis Street when her father began to attack her boyfriend, Enrique Castillo, 21, according to an incident report.

Berlanga had been there to celebrate Father's Day earlier Sunday, and returned in the evening upset, police said. A neighbor who heard their shouts retrieved the children, removing them from harm.

"My children are OK, thankfully," Valerie Berlanga said Monday. "But I don't know why they didn't shoot him in the leg or use a Taser. Why did they have to kill him?"

Sgt. Chris Benavides, a spokesman for the Police Department, said he wasn't sure if Officer Brad Westmorland, a 16-year veteran, had a Taser when he entered the home. But Westmorland appeared to have acted appropriately by firing his duty weapon, Benavides said.

"The suspect had a knife and was actively engaged in the struggle," Benavides said. "Preliminarily, it appears that this officer potentially saved the life of (Castillo)."

Police said when Westmorland entered the home, Berlanga and his daughter were struggling on a stair landing. Berlanga had a switchblade, officers said, and Castillo, who had already sustained minor injuries after Berlanga allegedly attacked him, was barricaded in an upstairs bedroom.

"The officer said, over and over again, 'Drop your weapon,'" said Manny Martinez, 46, a Poteet-based bounty hunter who happened to be parked outside working on his laptop when the incident began.

"I heard one pop, and then the daughter came running down the stairs, screaming, 'The cop shot my father,'" Martinez said, adding that he believes Westmorland was justified in shooting Berlanga. He said he offered to help Westmorland when the officer arrived at the home alone, and waited at the front door, where he saw the trio struggle.

"He didn't comply with the officer's orders," he said. "It was Father's Day, and here you have a father getting killed. It was traumatizing for all involved."

Martinez said one of Valerie Berlanga's children, a young boy, kicked Westmorland after the shooting, apparently angry that the officer shot his grandfather. Records show Domingo Berlanga had been arrested several times, including twice when he was accused of assaulting a relative and once when he was accused of making a terroristic threat.

Westmorland is on administrative duty while the shooting team investigates the incident, the second officer-involved shooting in less than one week and the 14th officer-involved shooting this year.