CEDAR MILL -- The Washington County Sheriff's Office has released the name of the deputy who fatally shot a Southern Oregon man early Sunday morning at a Cedar Mill home.



Juan Elenes, 28, shot 31-year-old Bryan Guerrero in the head through the glass of a bedroom window, after he reportedly saw Guerrero threatening 22-year-old Michael Guerra with a knife, the sheriff's office said.



Guerrero died at the scene. Guerra received minor injuries from the window glass shattering, said Sgt. David Thompson, sheriff's office spokesman.



Elenes has been with the sheriff's office for about five years, the beginning of which were spent in the jail division before he transferred to the patrol division in 2007, Thompson said. He has not been part of a deputy-involved shooting before and has no disciplinary issues.



Elenes was the first deputy to arrive at the home, in the 1500 block of Northwest 88th Avenue, after a report of a fight at the residence. Upon arriving at 3:30 a.m., Elenes could hear people arguing at the home, but could not see anyone, Thompson said.



Elenes then saw Guerra enter a bedroom located in the front of the house and began talking to him through a partially opened window. Thompson said he did not know what was said between Elenes and Guerra.



Guerrero, who was not wearing a shirt and had blood on his chest and face, stopped in the bedroom's doorway, Thompson said. Elenes told Guerrero to stay out of the room, but he ignored the order and grabbed Guerra around the torso from behind, Thompson said. When Guerrero grabbed Guerra, Elenes saw a six-inch kitchen knife with a pointed tip in Guerrero's hand.



Guerra held back Guerrero's wrist to keep Guerrero from stabbing him, Thompson said. Thompson said he could not release details about where Guerrero was holding the knife to Guerra.



Guerrero did not follow three orders from Elenes to put the weapon down, and at 3:31 a.m., Elenes shot Guerrero once through the window at the residence, Thompson said. Only one shot was fired, and Thompson would not say how far Elenes was from the window when he fired.



As the shooting was occurring, a second deputy, who has not yet been identified, arrived.



Guerrero's autopsy, which was performed Monday, showed that he died from a single gunshot wound to the head, Thompson said. Guerrero also had minor injuries from a fight prior to Elenes' arrival.



Guerrero and Guerra, who appeared to know each other, were visiting the residence from Southern Oregon. Investigators believe alcohol may have been a factor in the fight.



The Washington County Major Crimes Team is investigating the shooting, and Elenes remains on standard administrative leave.



– Rebecca Woolington











