A Napa County correctional officer was shot and killed by Vacaville police on Sunday afternoon after holding a SWAT team at bay for almost three hours.Richard Klensch, 56, was pronounced dead at his Trillick Court home after officers fired several rounds at Klensch when he stepped from his house into the driveway area and leveled a rifle at the officers, according to Vacaville Police Lt. Craig Rossiter.Rossiter said the death may be a case of police-involved suicide, but other motives are still under investigation.Police were called to Klensch's home at 3:11 p.m.Klensch was walking through the house from the back door to the front door armed with a rifle. Neighbors said Klensch sent his wife and two daughters out the house early during the standoff. After about an hour and half, Klensch fired one round from the rear of the house. Ten minutes later, he came out the front door, walked to the driveway and leveled the rifle at the officers, who opened fire.Several times during the standoff, Klensch yelled "Shoot me, shoot me" to the officers outside.The entire time, he was unresponsive to officers who were talking to him, Rossiter said."We're all just in shock," Dan Cunningham, Napa County Department of Corrections director, said this morning. "There is no justification for this incident. But the Richard we all knew was not the Richard involved in the incident. It's just so sad and such a tragedy."Cunningham said Klensch had "advised us he was having a difficult time and was in the process of ending his marriage. He was on medication to assist him through his depression over this."Cunningham said a county jail supervisor was on the telephone talking to Klensch during the Sunday afternoon ordeal."Mixing the medication and alcohol was not a wise thing for him to do. He didn't make a good decision. But when it got to that a point, I don't think he thought he had any other way out. So, he forced the officers to do what he could not do," Cunningham said. "He told the supervisor that he had blown it (when the police became involved) and it was going to affect his employment."Cunningham said Klensch, who has been a correctional officer for about five years in Napa County, was "one of the greatest guys in the world.""He never missed a day's work. He would give you the shirt off his back. There is just no way of predicting this type of action, especially with a person like Richard. All the clichés you read in the paper when something like this happens, well, that's Richard," Cunningham said. "We all saw him just the day before and never thought this was going to happen." Vacaville Police and the Solano County District Attorney's Office are in charge of the criminal investigation. Marsha Dorgan can be reached at 256-2214 or mdorgan@napanews.com