Five police officers and sheriff’s deputies were legally

justified in fatally shooting a Fontana man during a standoff last

June after he urged them to kill him and then opened fire on them

with his own gun, San Bernardino County District Attorney’s

officials say.

A single bullet killed 66-year-old Ernest Irish by entering his

right eye and penetrating his brain, an autopsy surgeon

determined.

Irish died at the scene of the 11:19 a.m. confrontation June 27

in a mobile home park along the 8300 block of Cherry Avenue.

The incident began with a domestic violence call.

Irish and his wife were having coffee when he became upset

because their home remodeling project was costing more than

expected, resulting in Irish being unable to buy his prescription

drugs on time, Supervising Deputy District Attorney Ray Pyle said

in a nine-page analysis released today.

“Mr. Irish was disabled, having had six spinal surgeries,

resulting in terrible back pain, and a hip replacement,” according

to the report.

“Mrs. Irish (later) informed officers that … her husband ‘just

snapped.’ Mr. Irish grabbed her, throwing her against a wall.

“He continued to break property … over a period of three

hours. Mr. Irish told his wife if she didn’t get out of the way,

he’d strangle her.”

She fled and called 911.

Sheriff’s Sgt. Sarkis Ohannessian negotiated with Irish,

eventually coaxing him outdoors.

“When (Irish) did so, he pointed a firearm at two of the

officers, resulting in all officers taking … cover,” the report

says. “Mr. Irish (later) fired on officers from the residence.

“Officers returned fire, with one round striking Irish.”

When the shooting stopped, the officers waited for a SWAT team,

which entered the house and found the body.

In clearing the officers of any criminal blame, Pyle emphasized

that they had to make a split-second decision when Irish began

shooting at them.

“Had they hesitated in this situation, death or great bodily

injury could have come to any officer in the … line of fire or to

residents of the mobile home park,” Pyle wrote. “They had to make a

quick decision, and the totality of the circumstances dictates that

their decision was correct.”

Reach Richard Brooks at 951-368-9463 or rbrooks@pressenterprise.com