A Brea police officer was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by the Orange County District Attorney’s Office in the shooting death of a Yorba Linda man a year ago.

The D.A.’s Office typically investigates officer-involved shootings in the county and determines only whether officers committed a crime. The findings were made public Wednesday in an 11-page report.

Brea police, who serve Yorba Linda, believed Julian Collender, 25, to be an armed-robbery suspect when he was killed by one shot from a detective’s assault rifle outside his Yorba Linda home around 12:25 a.m. June 30.

Members of the Collender family have staged several public protests and attended Yorba Linda City Council meetings, outraged by the unwillingness of authorities to release details of the shooting.

Collender’s family and supporters have insisted that he posed no threat to officers that night.

In a statement to investigators, the detective said Collender had disobeyed “loud and forceful” commands to “get his hands up and drop to the ground.”

After reviewing video from a police officer’s in-car video recording system, D.A. investigators concluded:

•Collender was backpedaling in the middle of the street with the detective keeping pace from six to eight feet away.

•Collender was holding his hands at a 45-degree angle to his body, with a flashlight in his right hand, when he “moved his left hand quickly towards his left-front pants pocket.”

•Collender continued the quick motion of his left hand, putting it in his left-front pants pocket. Collender’s pants looked baggy and appeared to have been capable of concealing a handgun in the pocket.

•The detective’s commands can be heard, telling Collender to get on the ground.

•When Collender started to remove his left hand from his pocket, the detective fired a single shot to his abdomen.

Collender, who was found to be unarmed, was taken to Kaiser Medical Center in Anaheim and pronounced dead at 1:38 a.m.

“Collender had in his possession an iPod that was taken from one of the three victims of the robbery hours earlier,” the report stated.

An autopsy performed the next morning revealed that Collender had oxycodone in his system at “midrange between therapeutic level and fatal level.”

The day after the shooting, Adela McCormick, 22, was arrested on suspicion of committing a robbery that occurred about seven hours before the shooting.

Victims reported the robbery to Brea police hours before the shooting and picked Collender out of a photo lineup.

In September, McCormick pleaded guilty for her role in the robbery and named Collender as her accomplice.

One of the three victims, an acquaintance of Collender and McCormick, told police that Collender had pointed a Beretta 9mm handgun at his head.

“Collender and McCormick demanded OxyContin and property from all three victims,” the report stated. Collender also threatened to kill one of the victim’s family.

After the victims identified Collender, police proceeded to stand watch in an unmarked car outside Collender’s home while a warrant was being prepared for a search of the house.

In that search, police found a Beretta 9mm handgun registered to Collender. The robbery victims later identified that gun as the one Collender pointed at them.

Richard Collender, Julian’s father, said he had just begun reading the report when asked to comment on the findings.

“From what I’ve read, they haven’t conducted a thorough investigation,” Collender said. “These alleged facts are not facts. … We will present our side.”

Brea police Chief John M. Conklin issued a written statement regarding the investigation.

“The OCDA conducted an independent and thorough investigation of the facts and circumstances of the incident. The resulting report is very detailed, and I believe those facts speak for themselves.

“In respect for the Collender family, on behalf of the Brea Police Department, I once again offer my condolences for their loss.”

Sgt. Jim Griffin said the department will proceed with its own internal investigation, now that the investigation is complete.