Jeffrey Lee Clausen, 33, of St. Paul Park, Minn. died in an officer-involved shooting in Cottage Grove Wednesday night. Police say Clausen was the subject of a weapons investigation. Photo courtesy of the Washington County Sheriff's Department

Four officers from the Washington County Special Response Team shot and killed one man and injured another during a felony weapons investigation Wednesday night in Cottage Grove, police said.

Jeffrey Lee Clausen, 33, of St. Paul Park died at the scene and the other man was taken to Regions Hospital in St. Paul. The extent of his injuries was unknown, and authorities have not released his name.

The state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating the incident, which took place after police stopped the car that the two men were riding in near the intersection of Hadley Avenue and Belden Boulevard.

BCA spokesman Doug Neville said seven members of the Washington County Special Response Team were working a felony weapons case and stopped the vehicle with guns drawn.

Grow the Future of Public Media MPR News is supported by Members. Gifts from individuals power everything you find here. Make a gift of any amount today to become a Member!

He said one of the men in the vehicle got out and repeatedly failed to follow officers' commands. Four of the officers fired and the man was shot and killed. The second man was injured, and the 27-year-old female driver of the vehicle was arrested.

Neville said the BCA is investigating whether the men were armed or posed a threat to officers before the shooting began.

"We're still trying to figure out exactly what occurred," he said, adding that investigators expected to be on the scene for several more hours.

The officers on the special response team were from various law enforcement agencies and have been placed on paid administrative leave. The team has 31 members from nine Washington County law enforcement agencies.

Neville expected the names of the officers involved would be released later this week.