BORING -- An elderly woman who died after reaching for a handgun and being hit with a police stun gun was identified today at Phyllis Owens. 87, of Boring.

Dr. Larry Lewman, deputy state medical examiner, said an autopsy revealed that Owens suffered from heart disease and had a pacemaker. He said he needed more information on when she had the pacemaker implanted to determine whether that played a role in her death.

"But let me put it this way: A healthy person would not have died from this," Lewman said.

Owens was still wearing an ID bracelet from a recent hospital visit.

The Clackamas County's Major Crimes Team will investigate.

The team, composed of investigators from Lake Oswego, Milwaukie, West Linn, Oregon City and Molalla, will turn its findings over to the Clackamas County District Attorney's Office for review.

Meanwhile, the two deputies, whose names were not yet released, have been placed on administrative leave.

Detective Jim Strovink, Clackamas County sheriff's spokesman, said the manager at the Big Valley Woods Mobile Home Park, 32700 S.E. Leewood Lane, brought Owens some fresh water Thursday morning, telling her service would interrupted because he was installing a new water line.

"At that point, she was sweet and everything seemed fine," Strovink said.

The manager then proceeded to use a backhoe to dig up the yard where the new line would be laid.

But around 2 p.m., Owens came out of her home, threatening the manager with a semiautomatic handgun.

"Then all of a sudden, she went sideways," Strovink said. "She started yelling, 'What in hell are you doing, making all this racket at this time of night?' She didn't make any sense."

Owens then threatened to kill the manager, waving the gun and saying she would "kill all of you."

The manger used a radio to call his wife, an assistant manager, who called 9-1-1. Two "veteran" deputies responded around 2:35 p.m., Strovink said.

One deputy approached Owens's home from the front -- out in the open -- while another took a position behind bushes to the side of Owens's porch. Deputies then began negotiating with Owens, trying to calm her and persuade her to put down the gun.

"At one point, they had just about won her over and she put the gun down on the porch railing," Strovink said. "But when they moved in on her, she picked it up again."

That's when the deputy behind the bushes shot Owens with a Taser, a stun gun that delivers a 50,000-volt jolt. Owens immediately collapsed and deputies rushed to her side. They soon noticed she was breathing, but unconscious and began CPR to revive her. One called for an ambulance.

Owens was rushed to Mount Hood Medical Center in Gresham, where she died about an hour later.

Strovink said that under police protocol, deputies likely would have been justified in shooting her, but recognized that she was frail and tried to use a less-lethal solution to defuse the situation.

"I think they showed a lot of empathy and compassion," Strovink said. "The deputy out in the open, in particular, put himself at great personal risk. But there is no doubt the woman's death is a tragedy."

Strovink said neighbors told deputies that Owens' mental health had been deteriorating and that she appeared to be suffering from dementia.

--