Four San Diego police officers were justified in using lethal force in two separate incidents this summer, the District Attorney’s Office said in letters to Chief William Lansdowne.

John Noble Evans, 68, was shot and killed June 16 after he fatally wounded a man at an apartment on Winona Avenue in City Heights and fired at two police officers.

In the other case, Jose Carlos Rodriguez, 23, was shot and killed July 9 at a Logan Heights apartment after threatening his neighbors and officers with an 11-inch butcher knife.

Advertisement

Evans was armed with a handgun when he went to his ex-girlfriend’s City Heights apartment shortly after 7:30 a.m. and shot her new boyfriend, Joseph Hollis, 64, twice in the head and once in the chest.

San Diego police Officer Thomas Andrews and Lt. Natalie Stone were among officers who responded to the shooting. When they arrived, Evans was holding his ex-girlfriend against her will.

When Evans emerged from the apartment, he fired a shot at the two officers from the front step, then went back into the doorway and again turned his gun at Andrews and Stone, the DA’s Office said. Both officers fired at Evans. He died a short time later at a hospital.

In the July incident, Rodriguez was armed with the butcher knife when police were called to the apartment complex where he lived on Martin Street. Rodriguez had been arguing earlier with neighbors, then returned to their apartment about 10:25 p.m., forced his way inside and began threatening them with the knife.

Officers Nathan Whann and Andres Ruiz were the first to respond. Rodriguez opened the door of his neighbor’s second-story apartment and walked out with the knife in his right hand. Two children were at the top of the narrow stairway. Rodriguez ignored the officers’ repeated orders to drop the knife, the DA’s Office said. When Rodriguez raised the knife and advanced within several feet of the officers, they fired. He died at the scene.

District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis wrote in separate letters to Chief Lansdowne that in both cases the officers fired in self-defense and in defense of each other, and bear no criminal liability for their actions. The letters were released Monday.

susan.shroder@uniontrib.com • (619) 293-1876