A San Jose man faces murder charges for allegedly fleeing a highway patrol officer and smashing his speeding Honda Civic into another car, leaving a 15-year-old girl fatally injured.

Santa Clara County prosecutors Thursday accused Bernandino Cuebas, 24, of reckless disregard for human life, saying he drove his Honda about 65 mph through a red light and smashing into a Mitsubishi Mirage near downtown.

When he was arrested and asked why he fled, Cuebas reportedly told a CHP officer, “I’m on the run.”

If convicted, he faces life in prison.

In the courtroom Thursday, Cuebas stood silently, with a few visible bandages on his shackled hands and arms.

Court records released Thursday shed some light on the police chase through busy city streets, which some experts have questioned as too risky for the CHP officer to have done.

Although it remains unclear how fast the officer was following, according to the documents, Cuebas was speeding wildly through the streets near San Jose State University to try to escape capture, crossing over solid yellow street lines and running at least two red lights before the ﻿crash at San Fernando and 10th streets.

Following behind, the CHP officer, identified in the reports only by his last name, Kroon, was able to capture Cuebas, who was trying to run away on foot after the crash, according to the documents.

The chase began with Kroon parked on duty in his marked patrol car at the offramp of Interstate 280 at South 11th Street, monitoring the intersection for illegal turns.

At 3:50 p.m. Tuesday, he saw a black Honda take an illegal right-hand turn.

Activating his lights, Kroon tried to stop the Honda. It did not stop and began accelerating on a circular route around San Jose State through the crowded heart of San Jose. He took a left on William Street. The officer followed, sirens on. From South Third Street, the driver reportedly sped on to San Fernando, traveling 55 to 65 mph.

Running a red light, he broadsided a Mitsubishi Mirage, practically shearing it in half, according to the police account.

Inside the car was the Montufar family of San Jose — a mother and three children.

Leyda Montufar died Wednesday of her head injuries.

Johnny, 12, was knocked out during the crash and remains hospitalized. Nayla, 6, was treated and released with “a moderate brain injury.”

Cuebas fled the scene, police said, leaving his wrecked car and his passenger, Alina Portela, who suffered broken ribs during the crash. She was not charged and sources told the Mercury News that during the chase she told Cuebas to slow down.

Although the patrol officer didn’t know it when he began the chase, Cuebas was a fugitive with a no-bail warrant and a record of resisting arrest and running from the cops.

Parole agents issued a no-bail warrant June 10 after failing to make contact with Cuebas, a violation of the conditions of his parole. Cuebas was considered a high-control parolee, meaning he required the maximum level of supervision by parole agents.

Cuebas was on parole after a series of convictions including drug felonies and 2007 Santa Clara County charges of stealing a car and fleeing from the cops.

His parents attended the arraignment, his mother crying and his father trying to make sense of what happened.

Bernandino Cuebas III said his unemployed son — who has two young children of his own — most likely did not have a clear understanding of the accident that took the life of the young girl. He said he spoke with his son on the phone and he was crying.

“He said he didn’t know what happened,” the elder Cuebas said.

Both parents questioned why the officer pursued their son for a traffic violation, and Cuebas’ father said he did not hold his son responsible for the crash.

The elder Cuebas said he had sympathy for the Montufar family.

“I feel for their loss,” he said. “It hurts me that my son is looking at all this time, also. They are losing somebody. I am losing somebody.”

Meanwhile, at Valley Medical Center, Johnny Montufar Sr., the father of the girl who was killed, said he hadn’t slept much and was not ready to talk about the crash.

In a statement he asked hospital spokeswoman Joy Alexiou to release, Montufar said: “Thank you to all the people for their prayers and support.”

Federal officials sent updated statistics Thursday that showed that in 2008, California had the most fatalities from police pursuits in the country with 36 of the nation’s 334 deaths.

Of that total, one officer, four occupants of other vehicles and two “non-occupants” were killed.

Twenty-nine occupants of the fleeing vehicles died.

Contact Sean Webby at 408-920-5003.