NEWARK - An Essex County Sheriff’s Office detective shot and killed a suspect in Newark’s Branch Brook Park today, marking the third law-enforcement related shooting in the city this week and the fifth in the past month, authorities said.

Authorities are still trying to determine the circumstances surrounding the shooting, which took place near West Park Drive and Bloomfield Avenue around 6:15 p.m., according to Anthony Ambrose, chief of detectives for the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office.

The man, only identified as the suspect in an ongoing Sheriff’s Office investigation, was shot once in the chest by an undercover detective and rushed into surgery at University Hospital, according to Ambrose. He was pronounced dead around 9 p.m., Ambrose said.

The detective was not shot, but he was also taken to University Hospital because he was "shaken up," Ambrose said. It was not immediately clear if the suspect approached the detective or pointed a weapon at him before he was shot, according to Ambrose.

Details were thin because the detective was still being treated at the hospital late tonight and was unable to be interviewed by investigators, Ambrose said.

The Sheriff’s Office’s Internal Affairs Unit, the Prosecutor’s Office homicide squad and the Prosecutor’s Professional Standards Bureau are investigating the shooting, which was the third burst of gunfire in Newark involving a law enforcement official this week and the fifth in the past month.

On Wednesday, two Newark detectives identified as members of the city’s gang investigations unit shot and killed Rashaan Gilbert, 33, of Newark after he allegedly approached them on a South Ward street corner with a loaded weapon and refused to drop it. Two days before that, an retired East Orange police officer was carjacked after he fired his weapon at a trio of robbery suspects on South 7th Street and Central Avenue. Police said one of the suspects pointed a gun at the officer before he opened fire.

Newark police were also involved in two June shootings, according to authorities, with one resulting in a fatality on June 22 after 19-year-old Jahad Phillips allegedly charged at a city police cruiser with a gun drawn.

"Unfortunately it’s the nature of this business. Today the level of violence we face is extremely high," Fontoura said. "No officer I know gets up in the morning with a thought to use deadly force."