State Attorney: Trooper Justified In Shooting Death Of Cottage Hill Man

State Attorney: Trooper Justified In Shooting Death Of Cottage Hill Man

An State Attorney’s Office opinion released Monday morning says a Florida Highway Patrol officer was justified in the shooting death of a Cottage Hill man during a traffic stop in July.

“The death of Clifton Austin Salter is certainly an unfortunate situation. While Trooper (Michael) Black was only in the process of an ordinary and routine traffic stop, Mr. Salter’s actions were sufficient to create an imminent fear of violence in the mind of Trooper Black,” according to Assistant State Attorney John A. Molchan.

Salter, 59, was shot multiple times during a Florida Highway Patrol traffic stop on Pine Forest Road the morning of July 14. The State Attorney’s Office said that prior to, or on the arrival of, the trooper at his truck, Salter drew a handgun and shot himself once. However, the report states, that wound was not fatal. Salter was shot a total of five times after raising his gun in the director of the trooper.

The State Attorney’s Office offered the following account of the incidents as they happened the morning of July 14:

Trooper black observed Salter’s red pickup traveling at 66 mph in a 45 mph zone on Pine Forest Road just north of Longleaf Drive, about a mile from the Pensacola Interstate Fairgrounds. He initiated a traffic stop, with Salter coming to a stop about four-tenths of a mile later. Black approached the truck on the passenger side and knocked on the window, according to the report. Salter did not respond, and the trooper noted blood coming from Salter’s nose.

“At this time, Trooper Black drew his handgun and believed that Salter had shot himself,” the report states.

An autopsy later determined that Salter sustained a gunshot wound to the upper portion of his month, but the autopsy indicated the self-inflicted gunshot wound was not fatal.

Black gave Salter multiple commands to drop his weapon with no response. An Escambia County Sheriff’s Office deputy and another trooper arrived on scene. Black attempted to open the door of the truck, but it was locked.

“Trooper Black observed Salter turn his head and raise the handgun in Trooper Black’s direction. Trooper Black believed that Salter was going to shoot him,” the report states. “At this point, Trooper Black fired his handgun three times through the passenger window, striking Salter in the chest.”

Salter continued to move, according to Black and the ECSO deputy.

“Salter was observed by Trooper Black to shift the handgun in his direction again. Trooper Black fired his handgun twomore times, causing Salter to slump again,” according to the report.

Salter was pronounced dead on the scene by Escambia County EMS.

Salter’s driving privileges were permanently revoked in 1997, and he had to previous felony convictions. “Further investigation also revealed that Salter was a Vietnam

Combat Veteran who was receiving treatment for depression, PTSD and bipolar disorders. Interviews with Salter’s friends revealed that Salter had no intention of going back to jail and would kill himself if caught driving without a license,” the State Attorney’s Office report stated.

Salter was the brother of Santa Rosa County Commissioner Don Salter.

Pictured above and below: Officials investigate the officer-involved shooting of Clifton Salter of Cottage Hill in July. NorthEscambia.com file photos click to enlarge.