Two San Antonio police officers fatally shot a knife-wielding man at his Southwest Side home early Tuesday after he cut an officer's hand - and his own arms - during a domestic disturbance, police said.

His wife had called police, and the couple's five children were in the home.

It was the seventh fatal incident that included an officer-involved shooting this year, the same as in all of 2009. San Antonio police officers have shot at people 16 times in 2010, already almost three-fourths of last year's total.

Neighbors said Melissa Hernandez, 25, and Jimmy Escoto, 31, had been having problems but that they saw no indications of violence. Out of work, Escoto cared for the couple's children at the home in the 5300 block of Little Creek Street. Child Protective Services had never been called there.

But police records show at least one violent incident in recent months, and it had made Escoto a fugitive in his own home. Relatives said the pair occasionally separated when Escoto drank, which was rare, because he knew he couldn't control himself.

Escoto phoned Hernandez around 3 a.m. Tuesday, apparently intoxicated, and she told him to bring their children, ages 7, 6, 5, 2 and 8 months, to the home, Police Chief William McManus said.

Escoto arrived with the children about 5:30 a.m., police said, and the pair began to fight. Hernandez could be heard yelling angrily from several houses away, said one neighbor who had gone outside with her dogs.

Hernandez called 911 but told the two officers who came to her door that she was all right, McManus said. They didn't believe her, he said.

"She indicated that everything was OK, but her eye movement said otherwise," McManus said. "She kept motioning to the left."

The officers entered, found Escoto hiding in a closet and tried to detain him - but he broke free, grabbed a kitchen knife and slashed at his own arms as he ran toward a bedroom where Hernandez and the children were, McManus said.

He then cut one of the officers' hands, and both officers opened fire in a hallway, striking Escoto several times. Neither officer was armed with a Taser, police said.

"They were in very close quarters," McManus said. "It was a deadly-force situation."

Escoto was pronounced dead at the scene. The officer with the cut hand was hospitalized. The children were unharmed and taken by relatives from the home, police said.

Police reports and Bexar County prosecutors said a violent incident in March in which Escoto forced himself into the house had resulted in charges of burglary of a habitation by force, which is a felony, and interfering with an emergency call.

In that incident, Hernandez told police Escoto struck her in the leg with a steak knife after knocking her down and wrestling a phone away from her as she tried to call for help, according to a police report. He was indicted but apparently never arrested.

McManus said Hernandez claimed to have applied for a protective order against her husband but failed to follow through. The Bexar County district attorney's office had no record of it.

Neighbors and relatives described a nice couple whose shaky relationship continued at the home even after a warrant was issued for his arrest.

"It wasn't a healthy relationship," said Maria Hernandez, Melissa Hernandez's aunt by marriage. "They've always had trouble."

A next-door neighbor, Fred Martinez, said Escoto and Hernandez had lived there for two years. Escoto had recently lost his food service job and stayed home with the kids while his wife worked, Martinez said.

Martinez said he didn't think Escoto was a big drinker but that he knew the family was in a "financial crunch." He added that Escoto was congenial with neighbors and their kids and could be seen walking to the bus stop holding his own children - one in a stroller, one on his back, two in his arms and the oldest by his side.

"They would be fighting from time to time," Martinez said of the couple. "We'd sometimes hear arguing late at night but not to the point they would beat on each other. I could have never imagined that it would come to this. It's a shame it cost him his life."

For Escoto, drinking was out of character, said Pauline Bondoc, Melissa Hernandez's grandmother. She said she was devastated by the loss because he was "a very good dad" and she had seen no sign her granddaughter was afraid of him.

"He gets very rowdy when he drinks," Bondoc added. "I thought he wasn't drinking. He knows himself. He can't take the drinking."

The only time Hernandez kept him away from the house and their children was when he drank, she said.

Escoto's sister Patricia Escoto said all five kids "are Jimmy's and Melissa's" and that they'd been together eight years.

"Sometimes it got out of hand and they would argue ugly," she said. "But they would fight and make up, fight and then make up."

"He was a kind-hearted person," Patricia Escoto added. "If he had a dollar in his pocket, he'd give it to you. He loved his kids and his wife no matter what they went through."

Arrest warrants related to domestic violence rose sharply in San Antonio last year and show no signs of declining this year. Brian Withrow, an associate professor of criminal justice at Texas State University-San Marcos, said increases in unemployment provide more triggers for domestic disputes that can lead to violence, such as changes in a family's routine and new financial constraints.

Greater San Antonio's unemployment rate jumped to 7.7 percent last month, up from 7.1 percent in May. Last month's rate duplicated January's jobless rate, the highest since the Bureau of Labor Statistics started reporting it for metropolitan areas in 1990.

"It's a pretty consistent pattern, for domestic violence experts who pay attention and really watch the economy," Withrow said. "They know that if economy or unemployment turns bad, they're going to see an increase in the number of cases of violence."

More training has improved the ability of San Antonio police officers to recognize family violence and assist victims, said Patricia Castillo, executive director of the Putting an End to Abuse through Community Efforts, or PEACE Initiative.

"Officers have to make split-second decisions. It's not always possible to avoid killing somebody," she said.

Both the injured officer, a three-year veteran, and the second officer, a one-year veteran, were placed on administrative duty while the incident is investigated.