PASCAGOULA, Miss. -- The former wife of a 34-year-old Moss Point man who died in police custody is pursuing a wrongful death lawsuit against the city of Pascagoula and its officers.

Wendy Connely, who was married to Brian Connely, filed the lawsuit in February against the city, the Pascagoula Police Department, patrolman Matt Chapman, and up to 13 others, according to court records.

"There may be other entities whose true names are unknown to the plaintiff at this time who may be legally responsible for the claims set forth herein who may be added by amendment by the plaintiff when their true names and identities are accurately ascertained by further discovery," according to the lawsuit.

Wendy Connely stated in court documents that she is the mother of Brian Connely's two children, who are the beneficiaries of his estate.

Lawyer Robert Wilkinson, whose firm is representing all of the defendants, said, "The facts and circumstances surrounding Mr. Connely's death have been the subject of an exhaustive investigation to determine the circumstances and cause."

Wilkinson said, "As a result of this investigation we are absolutely confident that neither the city of Pascagoula nor any of its police officers did anything improper or were in anyway responsible for Mr. Connely's untimely death."

According to news accounts, Brian Connely and his 16-year-old son were walking out of the Waffle House on U.S. 90 on July 20 when officers apprehended them and handcuffed them.

Connely reportedly had gotten into a fight in the restaurant with a man with whom he'd had disputes in the past.

Police called Pascagoula Fire Department Rescue 14 and Acadian Ambulance at 8:27 a.m., records show, after Connely dropped to the ground, and officers determined that he was in distress.

Jackson County Coroner Vicki Broadus said four days later that Brian Connely likely died from a heart attack brought on by the physical exertion of a fight.

According to the lawsuit, "while in the custody of the Pascagoula Police and outside the Waffle House, Mr. Connely collapsed, falling backward and hitting his head on the concrete pavement. At this time, Mr. Connely's eyes began rolling toward the back of his head and he lost consciousness. Rather than summon the appropriate medical assistance, the police officers did nothing. Instead, they believed Mr. Connely was playing a joke. Finally, after the passage of a considerable amount of time, and numerous pleas for helps from Mr. Connely's son and other Waffle House patrons, medical providers were called."

The lawsuit was filed on Wendy Connely's behalf by lawyer Erik Heninger.

Wendy Connely states in court records that she's requested a jury decide what damages should be awarded.

No court date has been set.