The suspect Santa Clara County sheriff’s deputies shot and killed during a deep-woods marijuana farm raid was armed with a pellet gun, the Mercury News has learned.

And in the wake of the fatal confrontation, the sheriff’s department has halted exploratory missions to find other illegal marijuana-growing operations pending a review.

Scouting deep within the steep, wooded wilderness of the sprawling N3 Cattle Ranch on July 21, three deputies shot Jose Penaloza-Soto, a landscaper from East Palo Alto. Deputies reported that the camouflaged 28-year-old did not drop his weapon when they spotted him and called out orders in both English and Spanish. In fact, he seemed to be aiming what clearly looked like a hunting rifle at a group of Alameda County sheriff’s deputies who were also on the raid.

As officers advanced on the wounded man, he suddenly reached out to grab the dropped weapon and was shot once more, according to officials.

When they finally got to him, lying on a hillside of scree not far from an 18,000-plant illegal marijuana garden, Penaloza-Soto was dead. His weapon turned out to be a .177-caliber air gun, loaded with pellets. Such weapons are dangerous, especially if shot at close range, but they are chiefly used for target practice and shooting small animals such as squirrels.

“They were convinced that it was a rifle,” said Santa Clara County sheriff’s Capt. Luther Pugh. “It is almost impossible to tell them apart, even if they had been closer. They can’t take that chance.”

Independent weapons experts interviewed by the Mercury News confirmed that it was virtually impossible to tell an air rifle from a standard rifle from a distance.

Later, sheriff’s investigators found the remnants of a small, armed camp of marijuana farmers, including a loaded .22-caliber rifle, two other pellet rifles and a hoard of ammunition, including shotgun shells and bullets for an assault rifle. The other suspects vanished into the woods.

The story of the deadly encounter in the forest came out this week, as the sheriff’s office continues its internal review. All three deputies are back working after an administrative leave, but officials are weighing whether there are ways they can mitigate the risk officers can face when searching the often rugged and dangerous backwoods areas for illegal marijuana-growing operations

Pugh said sheriff’s deputies will still respond to illegal activity involving marijuana farms, but that these specific kinds of exploratory scouting missions “are on hold.”

Some in law enforcement believe that a safer strategy is announcing the eradication by loud flyovers or using sirens and loudspeakers to scare away the suspects before an eradication mission.

Last month’s mission involved 11 highly trained deputies from Santa Clara and Alameda counties selected for their fitness, knowledge of tactics and tracking. And they couldn’t be highly allergic to poison oak.

Starting near the Lake Del Valle campgrounds near Livermore, they headed for a section of Sycamore Creek, near where some ranch hands had seen what looked like irrigation piping. They slowly made their way through an area considered ideal for drug cartels to set up marijuana farms — rugged and inaccessible.

When they reached Lamb Ridge, a steep fold over a small creek six miles in, Santa Clara County sheriff’s Sgt. John Spagnola saw a man. He was standing on a hillside. He had a gun in a sling around his neck.

Alarmed, multiple deputies shouted out to the man to drop the gun and raise his arms. He seemed at first to comply. But then he raised the gun, as though to aim it at the Alameda County deputies, who were below him in the ravine.

From 40 yards away, Santa Clara County deputies fired with rifles.

The sheriff’s office has already identified the shooters as Devin Fontana, an eight-year veteran; Michael Damigo, an 11-year veteran; and Cregg Dibert, an 11-year veteran.

The suspect fell, moaning. One bullet had broken his leg; another had traveled up into his torso.

Another deputy, who was accompanying a medic, shot him from 15 feet away when he reached out and grabbed his weapon, according to Pugh.

Penaloza-Soto was shot five times, the sheriff’s office reported, out of 15 shots fired.

Investigators are still unsure why the man aimed an air rifle at a group of heavily armed law enforcement officers.

“Why didn’t he raise his hands?” said Pugh. “We just don’t know what was in his mind.”

Deputies estimate that there was about $60 million of marijuana ready for harvest within two well-hidden gardens nearby.

Other suspects at the scene ran, deputies believe. Deputies heard them crashing away through the underbrush during the shooting. They have not been found.

The dead man’s family declined to be interviewed. But sheriffs reported that he was a Mexican national, here for slightly longer than a decade. He had worked for years with no criminal problems as a landscaper in the San Francisco area. Recently, his family reported, he had grown quiet and distant.

He would disappear for days at a time, they said, saying he was going hunting.

Contact Sean Webby at 408-920-5003.