FONTANA >> Prosecutors have declined to file charges against a police officer who had custody of a burglary suspect when the man stopped breathing and died in 2010.

Fontana police Officer Casey Mutter found Adeliano Servellon, 22, of Fontana hiding in a bush in a backyard on Paddock Lane on July 26, 2010, the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office said in a report. The suspect was only in boxer shorts and a T-shirt.

“The suspect had a blank stare on his face,” prosecutors wrote. “Officer Mutter began giving him commands to come out and show him his hands but the suspect did not even acknowledge him. It appeared to him that the suspect might be under the influence of drugs.”

When Mutter handcuffed Servellon, the suspect began having trouble breathing. He was pronounced dead at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center.

The incident began when a resident called police about 11 p.m. July 25 to report a suspicious person in her backyard. The man fled but jumped into another backyard. Mutter searched the area for the suspect but was unable to locate him.

Mutter came to a different home at 12:15 a.m. on another report of a man in a backyard. A resident there said the man was banging on doors and yelling to be let in.

Mutter chased the man about 15 yards until he slipped and fell on his back, prosecutors said.

Mutter and Servellon struggled on the ground, with Servellon kicking at Mutter’s back with his knees and Mutter striking Servellon on the side of his head, authorities said.

“The blows had no effect and Servellon continued to resist,” attorneys said.

Mutter and a police sergeant eventually got the man on his stomach, but he continued to resist and push himself up from the ground, authorities said. The officers were able to handcuff the man.

Coroner’s officials determined Servellon died of drug-induced excited delirium in the presence of law enforcement restraint. Heart issues contributed to his death, they said.

Toxicology tests showed amphetamines, marijuana, ecstacy, MDA and methamphetamine in his blood, authorities said.