A Marina father learned Thursday he will face a murder charge and potential life sentence in the death of his 8-year-old son, who was killed in a high-speed crash Tuesday.

Prosecutors filed charges alleging Zabdiel Solis Arciga, 32, showed a reckless disregard for his son”s life when he got behind the wheel of his 1993 Lexus while intoxicated, then drove more than 100 mph on southbound Highway 1 in an effort to flee a pursuing police officer.

That officer estimated Arciga was traveling 120 mph before he lost control on the Fremont Boulevard offramp about 1 a.m. Tuesday, slamming into the guard rail. Isaiah Solis Becker was airlifted from the scene but died on arrival at a San Jose hospital.

According to CSU Monterey Bay police, the officer pursued Arciga after he approached the patrol car from behind at a high rate of speed on Imjin Road. Arciga allegedly then fled onto southbound Highway 1, outpacing the patrol officer, who was traveling at 110 mph.

In addition to murder, Arciga was charged with a lesser count of gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, child endangerment causing great bodily injury, evading a peace officer, drunken driving and drunken driving with a prior conviction and causing great bodily injury.

In custody on $1.45 million bail, Arciga was arraigned in shackles Thursday afternoon. At his request, Judge Timothy Roberts appointed the public defender”s office, which entered a not guilty plea on his behalf.

Roberts set a preliminary hearing for Aug. 6 to determine if there is sufficient evidence to support the charges.

Prosecutors can allege murder when a suspect engages in conduct so inherently dangerous that it “implies malice.”

Outside of court, Jocelyn Togafau said Arciga, her son”s godfather, is a good man who went to court to get sole custody of Isaiah.

“Look at the man,” she cautioned. “He coaches Little League. His son was involved in everything. He is a dedicated father.”

Arciga has a 2002 drunken driving conviction. In 2005, he was charged with domestic violence in a case that also involved charges of vandalism, cruelty to a child and dissuading a witness. A jury acquitted him of the latter two charges and deadlocked on the others.

In the end, he pleaded no contest to vandalism. His attorney in that case, Shawn Mills, said the incident involved a different child and mother, who were in court to support Arciga on Thursday. Mills said he, too, was there to lend support.

Outside of court, Arciga”s family embraced and cried, but declined comment. Togafau said Arciga has two young daughters and his family is struggling to raise money to bury Isaiah.

Mills has established an account for contributions toward funeral costs. It is Chase account No. 3574685340.

Virginia Hennessey can be reached at 753-6751 or vhennessey@montereyherald.com.