An investigation into a police-involved shooting in Arlington Heights concluded that an officer did not act improperly when he shot and killed a man during a standoff last year, according to recently released Illinois State Police records.

Arlington Heights police Officer Michael Butler shot Daniel Moreno through a window on the 400 block of Palatine Road just before midnight on Aug. 1, 2010. Moreno died two days later in a Park Ridge hospital.

Advertisement

In a letter to the state police, Cook County Assistant State's Attorney LuAnn Snow said the investigation "revealed no conduct by Officer Michael Butler during this shooting that would give rise to criminal charges against that officer."

Arlington Heights police Chief Gerald Mourning said that outcome came as no surprise to him or the department.

Advertisement

"That was the outcome we fully expected," he said. "We felt the officer's actions were totally justifiable at the time, but we rely on an outside independent investigation regardless of the circumstances."

Police were called to the address for a domestic disturbance when Moreno's wife, Jennifer Ochoa, fled to a neighbor's and told police her 9-year-old son was injured and her husband, who had been drinking, was in her home with their 1-year-old son.

According to the 160-page state police report, officers at the scene reported hearing shots coming from Moreno's home and saw muzzle flashes. With a clear view of Moreno through the kitchen window, Butler shot him in the side of his head.

After the incident, Arlington Heights police conducted their own internal investigation. The Illinois State Police public integrity unit also investigated because it was an officer-involved shooting.

Butler was put on temporary administrative leave for about one week during the department's investigation, Mourning said.

"Any time we use force we automatically review the circumstances surrounding the event for a number of reasons — to determine if our actions were justifiable or if there are recommendations or implications for training or policy change or equipment," Mourning said.

mstoffel@tribune.com