JANELLE STECKLEIN

Potter County deputies KC Simpson and Steven White will never forget what happened Aug. 3.

Soon they'll each be awarded a physical reminder of the details of the bizarre 30-minute crime spree they helped stop.

If Simpson hadn't quickly located 58-year-old Gary Don Carner's pickup on a rural road west of Amarillo, some think the man would have killed an 11-year-old girl trapped inside. If Deputy Steven White hadn't fired the shot that killed Carner, he might have escaped to continue his spree.

Simpson, 27, and White, 49, will be honored for valor at the annual Texas Law Enforcement Awards on June 3. The deputies are among 33 peace officers who will be recognized by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standard and Education, the agency that regulates peace officers and jailers in the state.

Two Amarillo police officers also will receive valor awards at the event.

Potter County Chief Deputy Roger Short said the two deputies may be the first from the Sheriff's office to be selected for the awards.

"These guys faced an armed suspect that had already killed one person," Short said. "It takes an extraordinary amount of bravery to do something like that. We feel like today the little girl they rescued, they saved her life. That merits honor and honoring these guys."

Carner's crime spree began about 8:55 p.m. when he tried to abduct a woman putting air in a tire at a convenience store near Soncy Road and 34th Avenue. Carner asked the woman if she needed a tire gauge, put a handgun to her neck and tried to force her into his pickup. The woman escaped and fled into the convenience store, authorities said at the time.

When that failed, he tried to kidnap the 12-year-old granddaughter of Sharrel Blankenbaker, 63, of Felt, Okla., when she and her three grandchildren were at the Love's Country Store at 14701 W. Interstate 40, authorities said. Blankenbaker intervened and struggled with Carner. He fatally shot Blankenbaker in the back. She later died at a hospital.

Minutes after the shooting, Carner came across two 11-year-old girls walking along Indian Hills Road in rural west Potter County. He stopped his pickup and forced one of the girls inside at gunpoint. The other ran for help, authorities said.

Simpson and White were ready when the call came in.

Simpson was on patrol at the other end of the county when he heard of the crime spree.

White was assisting another deputy with an injured pit bull. Like all deputies that night, they dropped everything.

Simpson used his knowledge of the county roads to determine where Carner might drive from Indian Hills.

"There were only three different directions you could go from the direction I was coming from," Simpson said. "I just chose what I thought was the most likely."

He found Carner's truck near the intersection of Blessen and Jim Line roads. Other deputies, including White, moved in.

The 11-year-old spotted Simpson quickly, but it took Carner longer to notice the patrol cruiser, Simpson said.

"It was after she saw me come up behind him when (she) jumped," Simpson said.

White said he heard a gunshot at the same time the girl fell or jumped out of Carner's pickup. He feared the worst.

"What I saw, I presumed she was dead," White said.

Carner tried to escape and Simpson gave chase, watching as Carner tried to swerve around White's patrol car, apparently trying to flee.

White fired the shot that killed Carner at 9:26 p.m., ending the brief, deadly crime spree.

Investigators didn't find any shell casings from Carner's semi-automatic handgun, but they also said the magazine wasn't full and not all of the shell casings from the shooting were recovered.

In September, a Potter County grand jury determined White was justified in shooting Carner.

"Still, the living with what you have to do is a little difficult sometimes," Short said. "To get an honor like this ... I don't know if it makes it any easier."

Dr. Beverly Anderson, a clinical psychologist who provides counseling to officers involved in shootings at the Metropolitan Police Department in Washington, D.C., said police officers have milliseconds to respond in dangerous situations.

"Nothing ever prepares you for real life other than real life," she said. "You couldn't train for that event. I think that does speak to the bravery and the heroism of those (deputies). At the end they did what they needed to do."

White and Simpson are humble about the award.

"The two real heroes are Ms. Blankenbaker for protecting her grandchildren and the little girl who jumped out of the vehicle," White said.

Both have stayed in contact with the 11-year-old girl, now 12, and the Blankenbaker family. On Christmas Eve, the Blankenbakers stopped by the Sheriff's Office to drop off cookies, White said.

Blankenbaker's son, Damon, a sergeant at the San Diego County Sheriff's Department in California and the father of two of the children who witnessed Carner gun down their grandmother, wrote Gov. Rick Perry a letter that praised White and Simpson's actions for "ending this terrible crime spree."

Perry responded in November, offering his condolences and this note: "I thank you for sharing your experience with the Potter County Sheriff's Department, the Amarillo Police Department and the Potter County District Attorney's Office - they highlight the best of the Lone Star State."