Syracuse, NY -- The father and sister of Raul Pinet Jr. shook their heads as they watched the last moments of his life captured

on a videotape

from the Onondaga County Justice Center jail.

"He was a human being, not an animal," Pinet's sister, Luz Pinet, said as she watched the videotape obtained by The Post-Standard of Raul Pinet's fatal August 2010 struggle with deputies.

In the video shot in a small timeout room at the jail, Pinet Jr. yells "Please!" at least 40 times over two minutes. He asks five times for deputies to remove a spit mask they'd placed over his face to block his spitting. The mask had become displaced and was inhibiting his ability to breathe, according to the state Commission of Correction.

A deputy who was filming the struggle said in a report that she told the supervising lieutenant two or three times that Pinet needed to be turned on his side. Two experts in jail operations said that's the way corrections officers are trained to handle a struggling inmate to prevent positional asphyxia.

"Today it was my son -- another day it could be someone else’s," Pinet Sr. said as he watched the video for the first time in a conference room at The Post-Standard. "This needs to stop."

Luz Pinet cried as she watched deputies restrain her brother in the video. He was arrested that night on an attempted burglary charge accusing him of entering two Syracuse homes and grabbing a 7-year-old child in one them before police subdued him.

The state Commission of Correction and a medical examiner called the death a homicide, with the deputies' restraints a contributing cause. The medical examiner found Pinet Jr. died from a cardiac arrest caused by cocaine-induced excited delirium syndrome.

Onondaga County Legislature Chairman Ryan McMahon said today that in light of the Pinet case and other incidents at the jail, he's looking at establishing an independent oversight board of some kind.

"The information's troubling," McMahon said about a story in today's Post-Standard about Pinet's death. The legislature last week heard from community activists calling for an independent review board.

McMahon said he plans to contact members of the sheriff's and district attorney's offices in the next few weeks about a possible review board. Before he left the Syracuse Common Council, McMahon was involved in revamping its Citizen Review Board, which looks at complaints against police officers.

"When you hear about these incidents in the jail, you start thinking about" the same sort of oversight board, McMahon said.

"It's so difficult to figure out who's right and wrong," he said of the Pinet video and sheriff's reports. "The fact that you could see that struggle, trying to figure out what the right thing to do was in a situation like this, shows there needs to be some sort of independent advisory board of some fashion for the jail."

Sheriff Kevin Walsh said today he would be opposed to any new oversight board.

"We do have an independent review board -- it's called the state Commission of Correction," he said. He also cited the county Legislature's public safety committee as a body that oversees the jail.

"That's always been the oversight committee we report to," Walsh said. "I think that is sufficient."

Luz Encarnacion, president of the Syracuse chapter of the League of United Latino American Citizens, watched the video with the Pinets. She plans to use the video and the sheriff's reports to ramp up efforts to try to create an independent board that would review deaths and other incidents at the jail.

She said she'll get the video to her group's national office, along with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the U.S. Justice Department.

"We want to hold people accountable," Encarnacion said. "We are in a better position with that video. It’s something that we can unify over, something to point to."

The Post-Standard obtained a stack of reports and some jail videos from the sheriff's office under the state's Freedom of Information Law. The video of the timeout room came from a separate source.

Contact John O'Brien at jobrien@syracuse.com or 315-470-2187.