Either email addresses are anonymous for this group or you need the view member email addresses permission to view the original message

For those having trouble connecting to the San Diego Tribune article, here it is:

ROAD-RAGE SUICIDE WAS GETTING PSYCHIATRIC CARE

Joe Hughes and Pauline Repard

STAFF WRITERS

02-Mar-2000 Thursday

CARMEL VALLEY -- A 40-year-old Clairemont man who fatally shot himself in

the head when confronted by police Tuesday was under psychiatric care and

may have had acute medical problems, authorities have been told.

County Medical Examiner's Office investigator, Gregory Alan said Cooper was

a former electrical engineer, was disabled and had worked for the CBS

broadcasting network. He died at 6:45 p.m., about two hours after officers

faced his car with guns drawn.

"He probably thought that this was as good a day as any to start

something," said Jim Smith, a former housemate who saw Cooper become

increasingly ill and distressed last year.

"When I moved out, he was at the end of his rope. Everywhere he turned, it

was bad scenarios. He was on disability, which didn't pay for all his

medical bills. And he was worried about not being a good dad to his

daughter."

Apparent in a bout of road rage Tuesday afternoon, Cooper had fired at and

waved a handgun at motorists. Responding to 911 calls, police followed his

black Camaro until it stopped in a dirt lot at a construction site off

Black Mountain Road.

Police said three officers watched Cooper, who remained seated in his car.

Cooper made an obscene gesture toward them with his left hand, put a black

semiautomatic pistol to the right side of his head and pulled the trigger.

He is not known to have left any suicide note.

Police had pursued Cooper after receiving reports that a man fired several

rounds at a couple driving north on Interstate 5 at La Jolla Village Drive.

A bullet struck the taillight of the couple's Chevrolet Blazer, said police

Sgt. Dwight Reese.

The man continued to fire at the couple even as they used their cellular

telephone to call 911 for help.

Earlier, Cooper is believed to have cut off several cars on the freeway and

brandished a gun at a motorist on Fiesta Island after becoming upset at her

slow driving.

Police saw the Camaro and trailed it on state Route 56 to Black Mountain

Road about 4:45 p.m., when the Camaro went into a dirt lot, spun around and

faced arriving police units.

Within a minute, Cooper had shot himself, Reese said.

Police did not know why Cooper threatened people and then took his own

life.

"Our investigation will include interviews with relatives and others to

determine why this happened," Reese said.

In Cooper's car was a card for an appointment later this month at a

psychiatric facility in Vista. Officials there refused comment.

Police contacted Cooper's parents, who live in Texas, and they told

officers that they had no idea why their son acted the way he did.

A man who described himself as one of Cooper's close friends and a fellow

member of a Clairemont church said Cooper suffered from Gulf War syndrome,

contracted when he was working on television equipment that had been

returned to the United States from the war zone. He called Cooper a caring

and gentle man.

Smith agreed that Cooper linked his sudden illness to handling the TV

equipment, but that Cooper had never gotten a diagnosis to account for his

muscle and joint pains, migraines and extreme fatigue.

"He spent a lot of time on the Internet, trying to find out more about his

sickness," said Smith, a telephone service salesman who moved into Cooper's

house early in 1999, then moved out in late summer.

Cooper talked about himself for hours, saying he had graduated with honors

from Clairemont High School in 1977 but grew up in an abusive home with a

brother who turned outlaw biker. Smith said Cooper spoke of firing a

handgun outside his ex-wife's house years ago, for which he spent time in

county jail.

Police confiscated that gun, but Cooper's newest roommate told Smith that

Cooper obtained another handgun a week ago.

"He was always nice to me, but he had a lot of anger bottled up," Smith

said.

Neighbors on Charing Street in Clairemont, where Cooper lived, said he had

become severely depressed in recent months.

"His mood deepened after his wife divorced him and took his daughter away,"

said one neighbor who did not want to be identified. "He really loved his

daughter."

The ex-wife reportedly was on a sea cruise and could not be reached for

comment.

Another neighbor said police had been called to the residence last week.

Police refused to discuss any prior contacts with Cooper.

"I'm not surprised at all at what happened," said a man who lives across

the street and did not want to be identified. "Mr. Cooper had a lot of

medical problems."

Copyright Union-Tribune Publishing Co.