Liberty City residents are still stunned after a bicycle-riding robbery suspect who police say was carrying a shotgun was killed after a confrontation with officers in Liberty City early Friday morning.

But the news became even more shocking when police revealed the police officer who shot the teen, Ricardo Martinez, was the same undercover cop who shot and killed a 16-year old last week.

Friday's incident happened just after midnight in the area of Northwest 14th Ave. and 58th St., when a woman approached Miami officers who were patrolling the area and told them she had just been robbed by two men on a bicycle.

The cops found the suspects a short time later, and after a brief confrontation, police opened fire on the suspect with the shotgun.

The suspect has been identified as 19-year-old Tarnorris Tyrell Gaye, who was rushed to a nearby hospital where he later died.

The second suspect fled the scene and led police on a hours-long search which included police dogs, helicopters and at least one Federal agent. The second suspect was finally found shortly before 5 a.m.

"What we're doing is taking back the streets," said Mayor Tomas Regalado, who was at the crime scene early Friday morning. "These people were armed, they robbed a resident and the police confronted them."

Police said the officer who fired the lethal shot Friday was the same cop who killed 16-year-old Joel Lee Johnson in Overtown on Aug. 11 during a robbery sting.

A police investigation concluded Johnson was armed when he was shot and that Martinez was justified in using lethal force. The oficer was taken off probation and placed back on active duty.

Now another suspect is dead on Liberty City streets.

Commissioner Richard P. Dunn also came to the scene of the shooting.

"One of the things that this community, District 5, has to realize, this was apparently a robbery which was a black-on-black crime," said Dunn. "It just so happened that the officers were in the area because we have increased police presence and we've increased our efforts to crack down on crime."

Dunn said the officers had no choice but to shoot.

"This was a justified shooting," said Dunn. "We have to send a message to our young men, our young boys. You cannot do criminal activities and acts and not pay a penalty."