By Richard Brooks

The Press Enterprise

SAN BERNADINO COUNTY, Calif. — Three sheriff's deputies acted in justifiable self-defense when they shot dead a 36-year-old San Bernardino man who was charging toward them with a knife in each hand despite having been Tasered, San Bernardino County district attorney officials said.

Casey Leslie Demorest died at the scene of the Aug. 21 confrontation at his home in the 1300 block of East Marshall Boulevard. The incident happened in the unincorporated Del Rosa section of San Bernardino.

He had suffered multiple gunshot wounds, including one that ripped through his heart, an autopsy determined.

The bullets were fired by Deputies Cole Raynolds, Daniel Jessup and Richard Garcia.

Demorest's blood alcohol level was 0.15, nearly twice the presumptive limit for intoxication, lab tests determined.

The deputies had been summoned to the house by Demorest's wife, who reported that a family member had accused him of molestation, that Demorest had admitted the assaults and then had threatened to kill himself.

"Deputy Garcia opened the door and observed Demorest approximately 10 to 12 feet away from the door with a large military-style knife in each hand," Deputy District Attorney Vicki Hightower wrote in a 22-page report released this morning. "Deputies ... several times ordered him to drop the knives.

"Demorest failed to comply ... and stated that the deputies would have to come inside to kill him or he would get one of them."

Sgt. Edward Preston tried to stun Demorest with a Taser. Initially, it appeared to be effective, Hightower wrote, because Demorest seemed to be falling. Instead, he went on the attack.

"Demorest yelled something .... growled, and then ran at the deputies with both knives still in his hands," according to the report. "Deputies Garcia, Raynolds and Jessup fired their weapons while Demorest continued to charge."

In her analysis, Hightower suggests the agitated man intentionally forced the deputies into opening fire.

"It appears that Demorest meant to commit suicide by leaving the deputies no other choice than to use deadly force," she wrote. "Each deputy acted reasonably and within their lawful authority."

Copyright 2011 The Press Enterprise, Inc.