What began as a hit-and-run incident ended in the shooting death of a Plano man who fired on police, stole a squad car and led them on a chase Friday night in and near the Kendall County village, officials said.

Bjorn Roland, 40, of the 200 block of Keller Street in the Kendall County village, was declared dead at a local hospital after the chase and shooting, which began after a hit-and run about 8:38 p.m., according to the Kendall County Sheriff's Office.

Advertisement

The initial crash happened in an unincorporated area close to Plano, near U.S. Highway 34 and Eldamain Road, according to a release from the sheriff's office. Roads in the area were finally open by late this morning. They had been closed for more than 12 hours as Illinois State Police investigated the shooting.

Roland fled the crash on foot. A Kendall County Sheriff's deputy responded and was searching the area near the Fox Valley Family YMCA at 3875 Eldamain Rd. in Plano, when Roland fired shots at the deputy, police said.



The deputy fled his squad car to take cover, and Roland then got into the running, unlocked car and fled north on Eldamain Road.



As Roland was driving north, he hit a Plano Police squad car that was responding to the scene of the shots fired on the sheriff's officer. Roland continued to flee north in the stolen squad car and then turned west on Faxon Road, police said.



Roland then exited the squad car on Faxon Road west of Eldamain Road outside Plano and confronted police officers there. He threatened the officers and they shot him, the release said.



Roland was taken to Valley West Community Hospital in Sandwich, where he was pronounced dead, the release said. Several officers were injured, but all were treated and released.

Advertisement

A woman who was with her mother going east just west of Eldamain on Highway 34 Friday night, stopped in traffic that included a police officer who was two cars ahead of them said she saw a man come out of a cornfield on the east side of Eldamain, carrying a gun.

The man pointed the gun at the officer, and as the woman shouted "He's got a gun, he's got a gun," her mother turned the car around and began to drive away, the woman said.

As they tried to drive off, the woman heard a gunshot and saw a street sign get hit by a bullet, then heard four more "pops" that sounded like gunshots. The woman and her mother did not see anyone get hit by the gunfire, she said.

The Kendall County Sheriff's Office, Plano Police Department and Yorkville Police Department were involved. Illinois State Police Joliet District 5 are investigating.

A Kendall County Sheriff's spokesman said late this morning that no further information about the shooting was expected to be released by his office until Monday.



-- Caroline Kyungae Smith