The family of Briana Ojeda who allegedly died of an asthma attack after a police officer allegedly refused to help, held a demonstration at State Supreme Court in the middle of a very busy Brooklyn Book Festival, led by parents Michael and Carmen Ojeda. (Maisel, Todd,, NY Daily News)

Carmen Ojeda arises each morning to two painful truths: Her daughter is still gone. And the NYPD officer accused of watching the little girl die is still on the job.

"He was a coward," Ojeda said Friday as the second anniversary of her 11-year-old's tragic demise approached. "He should be suspended. . . . He shouldn't be a police officer."

Advertisement

Family members and friends turned out for a Brooklyn hearing — some with signs demanding "Justice For Briana" — as the Ojedas' lawsuit against the city continues its slow wind through the courts.

Briana Ojeda was suffering an asthma attack on Aug. 27, 2010, as her panicked mother drove the wrong way down Henry St. in Cobble Hill. She was headed toward Long Island University in a desperate attempt to get help for her daughter.

Advertisement

Officer Alfonso Mendez pulled her over just three blocks away and refused her request to call an ambulance, the mom said. The cop, instead, began writing her a summons.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

As little Briana's condition worsened, the officer ignored the mother's begging for help.

"Mendez refused, stating that he 'didn't do CPR,' " claimed a lawsuit filed by the family.

The girl later died at the hospital.

Mendez was slapped with department charges with failure to take police action, but the case is unresolved — not unusual in cases with pending litigation. He remains on modified duty as a Bronx housing cop.

City lawyers moved Friday to dismiss the suit. A judge will issue a ruling within 60 days.

With Oren Yaniv and Rocco Parascandola

rmonahan@nydailynews.com