VISALIA — Clay R. Sannar, a Mormon Church official slain by a gunman in his Visalia church office Sunday, grew up in Gridley and was remembered by a childhood friend Tuesday as a man “devoted to his faith and family.”

Josh Cook, a political consultant from Gridley, said he and Sannar took every class together through seventh grade, and both attended Gridley High School, where Sannar excelled at sports, including football.

Cook said Sannar graduated from Brigham Young University and moved to Visalia to pursue his interest in agriculture.

Sannar’s parents still live in Gridley, where his father, Ron, is a bishop with the church.

Cook said Sannar did his mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Ireland, while Cook traveled to Italy, but the young men remained friends.

“Clay was the best man at my wedding,” Cook said. “We both married our high school sweethearts, girls that lived on our same streets,” he recalled.

Sannar, 42, was general manager at Soil Basics in Visalia, a company that helps farmers increase crop yields. The company office was reportedly closed until Tuesday, as employees tried to deal with the shocking news that their friend had been gunned down.

Visalia authorities said Kenneth Ward, 47, entered the Mormon Church on Tulare Street Sunday and asked to speak to the bishop.

Ward was later identified as a former LDS member who reportedly felt he had been wronged by the church in the 1980s.

Family members also reportedly said Ward had serious mental problems.

When he found Sannar in his office, Ward allegedly opened fire.

After fleeing, Ward called police to report he had just shot the bishop at the church, but didn’t use Sannar’s name.

According to 9-1-1 tapes, Ward told officers where he could be found, and warned them to, “Be prepared to throw down in mortal combat.”

Strangely, Ward identified himself to a dispatcher as Zane Thomas.

Police arrived at the location given and were confronted by Ward, who began shooting.

Officers wounded Ward with multiple rounds. He was taken to a local hospital, where he died.

There is no evidence, police said, that Ward knew Sannar. The gunman lived in Modesto, 140 miles north, but reportedly grew up in Visalia. As of Tuesday, investigators had not discussed a motive for the killing.

Cook said he believed Sannar had only been a bishop for a matter of weeks. He said the slain man’s brother, Jared, is a bishop with the church in Fresno.

Cook said the news of Sannar’s death spread quickly, mainly on Facebook. Cook said he happened to be in Madera when he got the news and he rushed to Visalia to be with the man’s family.

“This situation is as tragic as it looks,” Cook said, noting the man’s death touched many lives both inside and outside of the church.

“He was everybody’s friend,” Cook said.

Clay Sannar is survived by his wife, Julie, and six sons, age 4 months to 13 years.

A posting on the Soil Basics company website Tuesday invites friends to a celebration of life and viewing from noon to 8 p.m. Thursday at Miller Memorial Chapel, 1120 West Goshen Ave., Visalia. Funeral services will take place Friday at the LDS Stake Center, 650 N. Lovers Lane, Visalia. In lieu of flowers, family members have set up a memorial fund at Citizens Business Bank, 500 West Main Street, Visalia, CA, 93291.

Call 1-559-636-2500 for information about the fund.