As you’ll read below, Ontario police ultimately shot and killed a Tec-9-toting, bullet proof vest wearing suspect who allegely raised a weapon toward police. The text below was taken from Ontario Police Department press release:

On Wednesday, September 01, 2010 at approximately 9:21 A.M. hours, Ontario Police Officers responded to a call of a man with a gun occurring at a residence in the 1000 block of East Sixth Street, Ontario.

Upon arrival, Officers surrounded the multi-unit building where the armed man was believed to be holding his girlfriend at gunpoint. As officers were attempting to make verbal contact with the female victim, believed to be the suspect’s girlfriend, the suspect was seen fleeing in a white Honda Accord from a rear attached garage.

At the same time, the police department armored assault vehicle was arriving to the scene and stopped the suspect from driving away. The suspect actually collided with the front end of the assault vehicle. The assault vehicle was used to push the suspect vehicle into an adjoining garage, pinning the suspect vehicle in the garage, thus preventing him from escaping.

As this occurred, the suspect pointed an assault pistol at the officers while he attempted to ram the assault vehicle. Fearing for their safety, two of the officers were forced to fire their weapons at the suspect striking him in the upper body.

The suspect refused to submit to arrest as officers attempted verbal negotiations with him. A short time later, the suspect was removed from the vehicle and taken into custody without further incident. He was transported, via ground ambulance, to an area hospital where he later died from his injuries.

The suspect was found to be in possession of a loaded Tec-9 assault pistol and was wearing a bullet proof vest.

The deceased suspect is identified as 37 year old Jason Marcellus Martin of Desert Hot Springs. Martin had been recently released from prison and was on parole for a prior domestic violence conviction. Martin is a gang member out of Riverside County who has a lengthy criminal history that includes resisting arrest, domestic violence, robbery, carjacking, hit and run, DUI and felony assault on a peace officer.

The two officers involved in the shooting will only be identified as a 15 year veteran assigned to the patrol division who holds the rank of Officer. The second is an 8 year veteran also assigned to the patrol division and holds the rank of Corporal.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact Detective David Rowe at (909) 395-2749.

PHOTO of Jason Martin courtesy of the Ontario Police Department.