A highly decorated police officer was legally justified in fatally shooting a 28-year-old parolee who pointed a revolver at him, stumbled while running away and tried to draw a second gun, prosecutors say.

Adrian Gutierrez died of three .45-caliber gunshot wounds about 2 a.m. on Sept. 2, 2010, at 17th and G streets.

Gutierrez had been paroled a month earlier. Police found nearly a gram of methamphetamine in the trunk of the car he crashed during a police pursuit that preceded the shooting. And an autopsy showed that he had methamphetamine and marijuana in his system.

Officer Edward Andrade wasn’t hurt.

The car chase began after Andrade heard a speeding car and saw Gutierrez run a stop sign, San Bernardino County Supervising Deputy District Attorney Mary Ashley said in a nine-page review of the incident. Gutierrez wrecked when he missed a turn at 17th and G, according to the report.

Before Gutierrez got out of the black Nissan, Andrade saw him holding a gun in his right hand, Ashley said.

“In a split second, the suspect … crawled over to the passenger side (and) exited the vehicle,” the report says. “Officer Andrade chased after the suspect … but became more fearful that the suspect was going to shoot and kill him.”

Then, Gutierrez stumbled and began to point the gun at Andrade, according to the report.

Andrade fired two bullets, and Gutierrez fell to the ground, but then reached for a gun in his waistband, Ashley wrote.

“As the suspect reached for the second gun …, Officer Andrade fired another round at the suspect,” she said. “Sgt. (Gary) Schuelke arrived on the scene and Officer Andrade yelled, “He still has guns on him.’

“Sgt. Schuelke … removed the gun from the suspect’s waistband and handcuffed him.”

Andrade has been involved in at least one other fatal shooting.

He was awarded the Police Cross — his department’s second-highest medal — after he shot and killed an Inglewood gang member who had disarmed Andrade of his baton and then his pistol after a traffic stop in San Bernardino on Aug. 23, 2008. They fought hand-to-hand until Andrade recovered his gun and opened fire.