The Santa Clara County coroner’s office has identified the two passengers killed Thursday in downtown San Jose in a crash of a Ford Explorer that was being pursued by the California Highway Patrol.

They were Vincente J. Reza, 22, and Jose De Jesus Varales, 23, both of San Jose, the coroner’s office said Friday. Both were back seat passengers in the SUV.

The 1:30 a.m. Thursday collision on eastbound East St. James Street near North Sixth Street is the second fatal crash downtown this summer involving the CHP. However, ﻿the agency insists Thursday’s crash was not a “bumper-to-bumper” pursuit.

In July, an innocent 15-year-old girl was killed during a CHP chase of a Honda Civic whose driver had failed to stop for a stop sign.

Almost 100 people, including one officer and six bystanders, have died statewide in connection with CHP chases over the past five years.

Dangers of pursuits

Between 2004 and 2009, the CHP engaged﻿ in 11,272 pursuits resulting in 97 deaths, according to statistics provided by the CHP after a public records request by the Mercury News. Eighty-two of the people who died were categorized as suspect drivers; eight of the people who died were passengers in the suspect vehicle.

Nearly 29 percent of the pursuits ended in collisions over the five-year period, according to the CHP data.

During the same period, 3,569 people suffered injuries because of the pursuits, including 658 officers.

The driver in Thursday morning’s incident, Jose Antonio Hernandez, 19, was arrested on charges of vehicular manslaughter, driving under the influence, possession of drugs, driving on a suspended license and evading an officer.

The CHP said Hernandez’s Ford Explorer didn’t have a front license plate, which is why he was pulled over. In a statement, the CHP said Hernandez initially pulled over, but then sped off when they approached his car. The CHP said officers lost sight of the Ford, and when they regained contact with the vehicle and activated their lights and sirens, the Ford “simultaneously” crashed on East St. James, killing both passengers in the back seat.

The CHP has not provided an exact timeline from the initial stop at 1:25 a.m. to 1:38 a.m., when San Jose police were called because of the crash. The CHP also has not provided the exact route of the pursuit.

Did CHP follow policy?

The Mercury News, however, has obtained a copy of the CHP pursuit policy, following a state public records request. The policy outlines that a pursuit “should only be initiated to apprehend a violator who refuses to voluntarily comply with the law requiring him/her to stop.” The policy also says officers should abort a pursuit when directed by a supervisor, or the pursuit should be voluntarily aborted “when the risk of continuing outweighs the danger of permitting the subject to escape.” Portions of the policy were redacted before being sent to the paper.

Department of Motor Vehicles records show Hernandez’s license was suspended July 23 for failing to appear in court. In November, the records show, he was cited for not stopping at a stop sign and not wearing a seat belt on two different occasions. In December, he was cited for speeding. In February, he was cited for not wearing a seat belt.

Why didn’t driver stop?

In an interview Thursday, Hernandez’s aunt Nadine Torres and his mother, Sylvia Lopez, acknowledged that Hernandez had a suspended license, but they insisted that hospital tests showed Hernandez was not under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Both were at a loss as to why Hernandez ran from the CHP.

“He’s never been in trouble, he works and he’s a good kid,” Torres said. “He’s been pulled over and had tickets before, and he’s always stopped. I don’t understand what made this time different.”

A passenger in the Explorer — Hernandez’s uncle, Eli Sanchez, 24 — suffered a fractured spine. Records show Sanchez was not arrested as a result of Thursday’s collision.

One of Varales’ co-workers at Super Micro Computer, France Aguiar, described Varales as a “good guy” who worked in the shipping department and was a “big-time Dallas Cowboys fan.” Aguiar had worked with Varales for about a year, and sometimes carpooled with him.

Reza’s family is organizing two carwashes this weekend to help pay for his funeral, which they haven’t planned yet. One will be today at 9 a.m. at Overfelt High School, and the other at 10 a.m. Sunday at San Jose High School, where Reza attended, but didn’t graduate from, his mother, Corina Reza said.

Corina Reza said her son was a father to a 3-year-old girl, and had recently started a job. Her 21-year-old daughter, also named Corina, said they still haven’t learned much about what the young men in the Ford were doing, where they were going, or why they didn’t pull over.

“I think they were just chilling,” Reza’s sister said.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at 408-920-5002.