Tomas Flamenco, 34, came to the United States and to Washington to find work and a better life, his friends said.

Last night, those friends and other members of the District's Latino community gathered to remember him and to call for justice at the place where he was killed in a confrontation with a police officer.

Flamenco was shot to death Friday night in an incident that began when an off-duty D.C. police officer warned three men in a car about drinking and driving, according to police. During a scuffle that followed, police said, the officer was struck with a metal object and a chair before he drew his service pistol and fired.

A single bullet passed through Flamenco's chest. He fell, fatally wounded, near Sherman Avenue and Columbia Road NW. As friends recounted it, the bullet brought an end to an odyssey that began many years ago in the province of La Libertad, in El Salvador.

About nine years ago, his friends said, Flamenco crossed the border between Mexico and the United States. He made his way through the Arizona desert and, in search of work, came to the District, which had become home to several of his childhood friends.

Friends said they quickly found him work, bringing him into the fold of Hispanic workers at construction sites across the metropolitan area. They said he worked as a carpenter, a drywall installer, and most recently as an assembler of iron girders, taking home $697.97 every two weeks, including overtime.

It is true that he liked to drink beer in his off hours, but "he always worked hard," said a friend, Ismael Vides.

The crowd of about 100 placed white carnations at the foot of a wooden cross at the spot where he fell, then marched a block along Sherman Avenue to where the deadly encounter began.

"I'm here to get justice, justice for your wrongful death," said Belmar Sorto, who said she and Flamenco had been together for seven years. Sorto stood in front of the cross and cried. "He wasn't an animal," she said. "He was a human being. What was done to this man was not right."

Arnoldo Ramos, executive director of the Council of Latino Agencies, which organized the vigil with the Central American Resource Center, called the moment "very painful and solemn . . . for the Latino community and for all the community of the District of Columbia."

"Another body of a working person has fallen, the body of a person who crossed many miles to come here to work, to support a family and to find happiness," Ramos added. "Many of our people fall in the desert or on the border, and some come to fall on the streets of the District of Columbia, the capital of the United States. But that is not tolerable."

D.C. Police Chief Charles H. Ramsey said last weekend that a preliminary investigation -- based primarily on the officer's account -- indicates that the shootings of Flamenco and 33-year-old Fred Lopez, who was wounded, were justified.

Officer Stacey Davis was treated for a broken left elbow and wrist, injuries that Ramsey described as "defensive wounds." Lopez, admitted to Howard University Hospital, has been charged with assaulting a police officer.

The police department's Force Investigation Team is investigating the shootings. Officials said that the police will turn their findings over to the U.S. attorney's office.

A wake for Flamenco will be held Friday night at Sacred Heart Church in Mount Pleasant. Friends will gather again Sunday afternoon at Bacon Funeral Home in Columbia Heights. A collection was taken up among the crowd to help pay for the transportation of his body next week to El Salvador, where he will be buried.

His survivors include two children, his mother and several siblings.

Staff writer Clarence Williams contributed to this report.

Belmar Sorto speaks during a vigil for Tomas Flamenco, who was shot to death last week in a confrontation with a D.C. police officer.