A man who fired a shot at two Pima County sheriff's deputies was killed when the deputies returned fire late Saturday at a home on the far northwest side, officials said Sunday.

Sean B. McCloughan was killed at a home in the 18000 block of West Tucker Road, a remote area south of Ironwood Forest National Monument, after the man's daughter called 911 to report he was attacking her mother, said Deputy Renee Carlson, a spokeswoman for the Pima County Sheriff's Department.

McCloughan, 53, died at the scene, Carlson said. The deputies were not injured.

McCloughan's girlfriend and their daughter were gone when deputies arrived at the home, Carlson said.

According to court records, a protection order through Marana Municipal Court had been served on McCloughan on Thursday, but it's not clear who asked for the order.

McCloughan had a criminal history that included assault charges dating back more than a decade, Pima County Justice Court records show.

Some of the assault charges were dismissed.

In 1997, McCloughan received three years' intensive probation for aggravated assault with a handgun and attempted aggravated assault with an ax handle, according to Arizona Daily Star archives.

Officials are still investigating Sunday's shooting, Carlson said.

The department did not release the names of the deputies involved in the incident, and Carlson could not say what their status is, but it's standard procedure to place deputies involved in shootings on paid administrative leave.

This is the second officer-involved shooting this year involving the Sheriff's Department.

Two SWAT officers with the department fired shots that killed Tim Debeau during a standoff Aug. 27 at the man's northwest-side home, Star archives show.

Deputies went to Debeau's home after he called 911 to say he'd killed his girlfriend, Yolanda Pronko.

Debeau refused to come out of the home, and a robot sent into the home spotted Pronko's body.

When he did come out, he was carrying a knife and a hammer and made "aggressive movements" toward SWAT officers, the Sheriff's Department said at the time.

Contact reporter Andrea Rivera at arivera@azstarnet.com or 807-8430.