By Yepoka Yeebo and Nina Mandell



DNAinfo Reporter/Producer

INWOOD — A man who called 911 and ranted about killing police was shot and killed in Inwood as he waved a knife at officers Sunday.



"I want you to call the cops 'cause I'm ready to kill," Emmanuel Paulino, 24, said in a 911 call transcript released by police Sunday night.

"I'm ready to kill some cops right now."



A knife-wielding Paulino greeted officers when they arrived at Vermilyea Avenue and 207th Street in Inwood around 5:37 a.m. Sunday. Police said a sergeant fired a Taser at Paulino's chest, but it failed to stop him from threatening the four officers.

"They told him to drop the knife. We have nine witnesses that saw officers telling him to drop the knife," Kelly said of the incident in remarks on Monday. "A sergeant fired the Taser and it had no effect. The deceased took the darts out of his chest...and he then proceeded to go across the street with the knife."

Emmanuel Paulino's mother, Liliana Paulino, meets with Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez Sunday. The council member demanded a full investigation into her son's death. View Full Caption Office of Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez

Alex Candelario, Paulino's 27-year-old cousin, said that he had told police he could calm Paulino down, but instead they drew their weapons, the Daily News reported.

"He kept pacing and they all shot him. He was walking in circles, not lunging [at police]," the witness said.

Police said they shot Paulino several times in the torso and he later died at Columbia Pavilion Hospital.

"He was shot because of excessive force," Candelario told the News. "He was a good kid, a humble guy. He didn't deserve this."

But Kelly said NYPD had no choice.



"These officers did everything they could reasonably do...He said go ahead shoot me. I want to die or words to that effect," Kelly said.



City Council Member Ydanis Rodriguez, who represents district 10, held a press conference at the scene of the shooting on Sunday, alongside Paulino's tearful mother, NY1 reported.



A 17-year-old was killed in Harlem. View Full Caption Flickr/Nick.Allen

"As soon as they have a lawyer and with a lawyer the family will talk," said City Councilman Rodriguez.

"At this moment the family just wants to see justice in this case and we in the community would like to see the investigation continue and to be sure that the whole truth will come," he added.