For the 14th consecutive year, Alexander Rojo, 51, competed in the Chicago Marathon, a 26.2-mile race he called his stress reliever. The veteran Cook County Jail correctional officer, who shunned smoking and drinking in favor of working out, finished Sunday's race in about 5 hours, 40 minutes.

The next day, as he walked next to his estranged wife on the Far North Side, he pulled out a handgun without a word, shot her three times, stood over her body and fired at least five more bullets into her, witnesses told police. He then sat down next to her body on a curb and shot himself in the head, they said.

Advertisement

The murder-suicide came less than a month after Rojo's wife, Nancy Rojo, 53, accused him of violently attacking her in their Plainfield home and threatening to kill her at gunpoint. She had filed for divorce six days later, court records show.

The turn of events surprised Daniel Kennedy, Alexander Rojo's divorce lawyer, who said he seemed "pretty level-headed" when they talked several times in the last couple of weeks.

Advertisement

Family members said Tuesday that the couple, married for 23 years, struggled after the 2005 suicide of their son, Carlos Rojo, 17, who fatally shot himself. Since then, the couple endured several breakups and reconciliations, Nancy Rojo had been unable to work in part because of deep depression and the two struggled financially, filing for bankruptcy for the second time in a decade, friends and relatives said.

In recent weeks, their difficulties escalated. On Sept. 11, Nancy Rojo later alleged, her husband slammed her against a basement door as she arrived home. He then cocked his gun, put the barrel to her cheek and announced, "I'm going to kill you," according to an order of protection she filed against him in Will County Circuit Court.

After the two entered the house, her husband "came at me like a raging bull" and "swung me in the air like a rag doll," Nancy Rojo said in the court papers. She alleged put the barrel of his cocked gun to her head and threatened to kill her as she lay on the floor in the fetal position.

Nancy Rojo said that after she spent three hours on the floor, her husband called police and claimed that she had tried to kill herself, according to the court records.

Nancy Rojo filed for the order of protection on Sept. 15, two days after her husband had filed for a protection order against her, accusing his wife of trying to hit him. On Sept. 21, Nancy Rojo filed for divorce. Six days later, the two had their protection orders dismissed and agreed not to contact each other, court records show.

Alexander Rojo's brother Victor Rojo, who also works at Cook County Jail, said the deaths shocked him.

Nancy Rojo's brother said he suspected that Alexander Rojo snapped because of the divorce proceedings.

"Just recently, she voiced that she feared for her life because (her husband) was acting crazy," Felix Mendoza said.

Advertisement

Tribune reporters Carlos Sadovi and Steve Schmadeke and freelance reporter Alice Fabbre contributed to this report.

wlee@tribune.com

kschorsch@tribune.com