The family of a Corona man who was shot to death by police last

Oct. 25 has lodged a wrongful-death claim against the city,

alleging that officers shot him outside a coin laundry even though

he approached them with his arms out and his palms open.

The claim, filed on behalf of David Salas, 30, does not say how

much money the family is seeking. It alleges battery, assault,

negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress and

negligent hiring.

Salas’ mother, Socorro, who was in the Laundromat at the time,

also alleged false imprisonment, saying police detained her inside

and then took her to the station to ask questions.

“She wants to know why they killed him,” said David Salas’

daughter, Alize, who translated for Socorro Salas during an

interview Thursday.

A Corona police news release issued on the day of the shooting

stated that officers were investigating a report of a man acting

erratically outside Home Laundromat on S. Lincoln Avenue near Sixth

Street. There was a confrontation with Salas and he produced a

weapon before he was shot, the release said.

Thursday, police declined to describe the specifics of the

incident, including the nature of the confrontation or the type of

weapon Salas had.

“The Corona Police Department along with the Riverside County

district attorney’s office is conducting a comprehensive

investigation, and the actual facts surrounding the matter will

dictate the investigation’s outcome,” Sgt. Frank Barron said

Thursday. “The matter is still under routine review of the district

attorney’s office, and it would be inappropriate to comment pending

the conclusion of that investigation.”

Alize, along with David’s parents, Socorro and Gerardo, sat in

their small upstairs apartment on Circle City Drive on Thursday and

talked about David’s life. They remembered him as a person who was

kind to neighbors and liked to play with the children who have the

run of the courtyard below.

Salas had recently worked in a gas station and a warehouse but

sometimes found himself laid off. He had returned to school to get

his GED but never did get a diploma, his daughter said.

Alize said her father was not prone to acting erratically but

could have been asking people for change in the shopping center the

day he was killed. He would take the loads of clothes into the

Laundromat and return to the car to listen to music.

She said he sometimes carried a pocket knife but didn’t know if

he had it with him that day.

Speaking in Spanish, Socorro Salas said a witness told her that

David obeyed police commands and that he was unarmed.

“My dad would not have caused trouble,” Alize said. “The only

time my dad gets mad, he’d get a mad face.”

The family is represented by Moreno & Perez of Los Angeles.

The claim was filed Nov. 29.

Reach Brian Rokos at 951-368-9660 or brokos@pressenterprise.com