A Rockford woman who was shot to death Tuesday when she drew a revolver in a Wal-Mart was indicted in December for allegedly cutting her roommate with a hunting knife, court records show.

Laura Gassaway, 33, had been ordered to undergo a psychiatric evaluation to determine her fitness to stand trial, said Winnebago County State's Atty. Paul Logli on Wednesday.

Advertisement

She had not met with a counselor as of Tuesday when Gassaway was detained for shoplifting in a Rockford Wal-Mart. While being questioned, she pulled a gun from her pants and started firing, striking three Wal-Mart employees as two police officers returned fire.

Two security guards struck by Gassaway's bullets were out of the hospital by Wednesday evening while assistant manager Esther Zabran remained in fair condition, a hospital spokesman said.

Advertisement

Gassaway's arrest in November--for causing superficial wounds to her roommate's abdomen and breast--was among a long list of run-ins she had with police and mental health officials.

In November 1998, she pleaded guilty to two counts of aggravated assault, battery and obstructing a peace officer after she threatened Rockford police officers with a knife. Police had been called to her apartment after Gassaway struck a woman with a pop can, records show.

Gassaway also pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct in 1998 after she threatened to kill herself with a gun in her apartment. When police arrived, Gassaway was wielding a knife, which officers took from her and placed her in custody.

Gassaway's parental rights were terminated in July 1998 and her son, now 12, is in state custody, records show. Gassaway was pregnant when she was killed Tuesday, police said.

For years, Gassaway underwent treatment for post-traumatic-stress disorder and panic attacks, records show. A 1998 report listed her as "suicidal" and said she was taking medication for her condition.

Gassaway was married in August 1987 and divorced 19 months later, accusing Robert Gassaway of "extreme and repeated mental cruelty."

The officers who shot Gassaway were Steve Allen, 45, a 20-year veteran, and Brad Shelton, 32, who has been on the force since 1992, said Dominic Iasparro, deputy chief of operations. Both officers will be assigned to administrative duties until a grand jury reviews the case.

Police are trying to determine where Gassaway, whose firearm owner's identification card was revoked 10 years ago, got the five-shot revolver.

Advertisement

Without the identification card, Gassaway was denied when she tried to buy ammunition Tuesday. As store security continued to observe her, she was stopped for allegedly stealing sunglasses and a wallet.

"We're really proud of what the associates did in that store," Wal-Mart spokesman Tom Williams said. The store reopened Wednesday.