Joe Johnson

jjohnson@onlineathens.com

An Athens woman recently filed a wrongful death lawsuit in connection with a police shooting of her son two years ago.

Juanita Cunningham states in her complaint that officers "negligently or intentionally" shot her 53-year-old son, and that the county and Athens-Clarke Police Chief Jack Lumpkin failed to provide proper training and supervision to the officers.

The lawsuit was filed in Clarke County Superior Court on Oct. 29, exactly two years from when Samuel Thomas Cunningham III was shot to death during a drunken fight at the Parkview Homes housing complex.

Though the complaint accuses two unnamed officers of negligence - John Doe No. 1 and John Doe No. 2 - just one officer shot Cunningham as he assaulted another man with a knife.

Based on a review of the shooting conducted by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, District Attorney Ken Mauldin and Lumpkin concluded that Detective Lou Pasqualetti's use of deadly force was justified.

In fact, authorities said the officer likely saved the life of John Jennings, a friend who Cunningham had already stabbed before Pasqualetti arrived at the scene.

"Our review of this incident determined that, without question, there was no crime committed in the incident except by (Cunningham) against John Jennings, who already had been stabbed," Mauldin said four months after the fatal shooting.

"It is clear from all accounts that a forcible felony had already been committed, and that without the immediate action of Officer Lou Pasqualetti, Mr. Jennings would have certainly been stabbed again and more severely injured, which could have resulted in his death," Mauldin said.

By filing on the anniversary of her son's death, Juanita Cunningham just met the two-year statute of limitations for initiating a civil action.

On the night of Oct. 29, 2010, Pasqualetti was on foot patrol at Parkview Homes when he heard a drunken fight inside one of the apartments.

Then a senior police officer, Pasqualetti looked into Jennings' apartment through the front door and saw Cunningham slashing at Jennings' throat with a knife, police said. The officer shot three times, killing Cunningham.

In a use-of-force report he filed soon after the shooting, Pasqualetti recounted how he had only a split-second to make a decision to fire his weapon to save a man who was being attacked.

"Samuel Cunningham was moving forward to attack (Jennings)," and he "put the knife to (Jennings') neck and I watched him slicing (Jennings') neck," the officer wrote in the report.

"It appeared to me that he was trying to kill (Jennings)," Pasqualetti wrote.

Juanita Cunningham could not immediately be reached for comment, and her complaint does not indicate whether she is currently represented by an attorney.

In the complaint, the woman claims her son's civil rights were violated by the shooting. Though unemployed, the man was "strong and healthy at the time of his death and capable of earning a living," according to the lawsuit.

In addition to his mother, Cunningham is survived by a son, who was 17 when his father was killed.

"In addition to the loss of his parent and the monetary value of his life of his parent, (we) have lost the value of (Cunningham's) advice, example, counsel and company, and all of the other intangible items of uncountable value that their loved one meant," according to the lawsuit.

The lawsuit seeks $5 million.

• Follow criminal justice reporter Joe Johnson at www.facebook.com/JoeJohnsonABH or www.twitter.com/JoeJohnsonABH.