AKRON, Ohio -- A forensic expert has concluded

that the Portage County Jail failed to provide adequate medical care to an inmate who had been sick for three days and then died.

Dr. Bennet Omalu reported earlier this month that he believes Mark Shaver, 32, of Kent, died from complications triggered by a Taser shock during his arrest and inadequate medical attention during his incarceration.

Correspondence between Omalu and the Summit County Medical Examiner's Office characterized the death as an "accidental homicide," according to documents The Plain Dealer obtained with a records request.

Shaver is among five Portage jail inmates who have died over 18 months, the newspaper reported Tuesday. Three were suicides, while the deaths of Shaver and another inmate raised issues about whether the jail provided proper medical care.

Summit County Medical Examiner Dr. Lisa Kohler, who is handling the Shaver case because the inmate died a year ago at Akron City Hospital, has yet to rule on the cause of death.

Portage County Sheriff David Doak, whose office oversees the jail, declined to comment Wednesday because he had not seen the report.

Kohler hired Omalu, a California-based specialist in brain injuries, to review the case. Omalu said in his report dated Nov. 12 that the Taser shock and "medically unattended incarceration" contributed to Shaver's death from a burst brain aneurysm.

Earlier this year, Kohler also conducted an inquest in which she called Brimfield Township police, jail officers and jail medical staff to answer questions about circumstances leading to Shaver's death.

The hearing focused on the use of the Taser by a Brimfield Township officer and a subsequent lack of medical attention, according to transcripts.

Brimfield Township police arrested Shaver in the early morning of Nov. 2, 2010, accusing him of stealing DVDs and video games from a Walmart store. Police reported tracking him though woods behind the store and finding him hiding on the ground. An officer told the medical examiner he fired a Taser because Shaver ignored orders to show his hands and reached into his pockets.

Shaver was addicted to heroin, and was sick with vomiting and diarrhea for three days in the jail, according to sheriff's reports.

Records also show that the jail knew he was sick and that he asked for medical attention, but was not seen by a doctor. Jailers found him unconscious in his cell, and he died the next day.

Transcripts of the inquest reveal conflicting accounts about whether he had exhibited any ill effects following the Taser shock, or whether he asked police for medical attention.

Shaver's girlfriend, who also was arrested in connection with the thefts, said Shaver was pale and crying after his arrest, saying he didn't feel well, the transcripts say. He asked for medical attention, but police ignored the request, she said.

But Brimfield Township Police Chief David Oliver told the medical examiner his officers reported Shaver appeared "perfectly normal."

Oliver insisted the Taser had nothing to do with his death. Transcripts show the chief challenged the medical examiner about why the inquest didn't focus on Shaver's heroin habit. Oliver also suggested Shaver may have had a heart attack after running two miles to avoid police.

"I've been around a lot of Tasers," the chief said at the inquest, adding that his officers have used Tasers on suspects more than 20 times. "I have never seen a Taser kill a person."

Oliver repeated the assertion in an interview with The Plain Dealer on Wednesday, after being told about the report from the forensic expert.

"That is nonsense," Oliver said. He added that Shaver refused medical attention, and at the police station he was well enough to joke and ask to go outside to smoke a cigarette.

"The medical examiner has a history of pursuing Tasers as causing deaths," Oliver said.

Kohler declined through a county lawyer to comment because the case still is pending.

Shaver's family has filed a lawsuit in federal court against police, the jail, the medical director and others. The suit claims, among other things, that the jail failed to treat his heroin withdrawal, Taser injuries and deteriorating medical condition.

"We're alleging they should have obtained medical attention for him as a result of his complaints of not feeling well," said Cleveland lawyer William Novak, who represents the family.

To reach this Plain Dealer reporter: hspector@plaind.com, 216-999-4543