Houston Police Department

Investigation into Incident at 4800 Laura Koppe



November 8, 2010 - Houston police are investigating an incident in which an armed suspect, who fired a shot at an HPD officer, was wounded by an officer at 4800 Laura Koppe about 2 a.m. today (Nov. 8).



The suspect, Arushary London Goodwill (b/m, DOB: 11-14-83), was transported to Ben Taub General Hospital where he remains in critical condition with a gunshot wound to the head.



The officer who discharged his weapon, A.W. Linton of the Northeast Patrol Division, was not hurt. Officer Linton was sworn in as an officer in March 2009.



HPD Homicide Division Sergeant K.R. Tolls and Senior Police Officer B.D. Evans reported:



An HPD officer saw a male (suspect) and a female engaging in what he believed to be narcotics activity. When the officer ordered the two to stop, the female complied but the male fled on foot. The officer pursued the suspect on foot. As they were running, the suspect turned around and fired a bullet at the officer's face, narrowly missing the officer's head. The two got into a struggle with the officer trying to wrestle the gun away from the suspect. Throughout the incident, the officer was giving verbal commands for the suspect to stop resisting. A second officer, Officer A. Linton, who heard the suspect's shot, arrived and found his fellow officer and the suspect struggling over the suspect's weapon. Officer Linton commanded the suspect to drop the weapon. Instead, the suspect ignored the commands and pointed the weapon at the head of the officer he was wrestling. At that time, Officer Linton, fearing for the safety of his fellow officer, discharged his duty weapon, striking the suspect. Paramedics transported the suspect to the hospital. Neither officer was injured.



The investigation is continuing.



As is customary in HPD officer-involved shooting incidents in the city limits, the incident is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions and the Harris County District Attorney's Office.







JFC/JKS 11-8-10

Inc #157802610





