An ex-NYPD sergeant yesterday was sentenced to the max – 11/3 to 4 years – for killing two Long Island men in a DWI car crash in 2001 and trying to bribe the cops who busted him.

Nassau County Court Judge Jeffrey Brown imposed the penalty on William Miley after hearing emotional appeals from the victims’ relatives, including Anna Duarte, whose 26-year-old son, Allan, died in the crash.

Turning to Miley, 31, who was convicted in November of driving while impaired, Anna Duarte sobbed:

“You were a sergeant with the NYPD. You were supposed to save lives, protect lives. You killed my son, Mr. Miley. You have turned our lives upside down.

“Mr. Miley, you know you had been drinking that entire night before you killed my son.”

Allan Duarte’s brother, Benjamin, who was injured in the May 27, 2001, crash, charged that Miley got lenient treatment because he was a cop.

“He’s got a good lawyer he can hide behind. He’s got money. If it were my brother who took the life of a police officer, he’d be in jail,” Benjamin said.

“Had my brother killed a police officer, he would have already been lined up before a firing squad.”

After the tearful words, Miley apologized to the relatives, saying that he wanted to do so from the start but that his lawyer had advised him against it.

“I do have a conscience,” he said, his face pale. “I am very, very sorry for the loss you endured at that time and for the pain you will continue to feel for a very, very long time.”

Miley said he had lost a cousin to a drunk driver.

“I remember the phone call. I remember the feeling of being numb and just the feeling that it can’t be. I can’t express how sorry I am for your loss,” he said.

“I don’t know if this is going to sound selfish, but I would much rather change places with them [the victims]. I cannot describe the pain I feel every day.”

The crash also killed Juan Carlos Garcia, 25, Allan Duarte’s longtime friend from Port Washington, and injured three other people. They were stopped at a red light in Uniondale, L.I., when Miley slammed into them after a night of drinking.

He pulled out a fistful of $20 bills and told cops, “Please let me go home. I’m a New York City police sergeant. Please help me.” He was fired after his conviction.