When Darius Caddell left home Wednesday night to go pick up his paycheck at Walmart, he asked to borrow his mother's car because his didn't have seat belts.



"He wanted to be safe," Debra Caddell said.



But the seat belts were no match for a convicted felon fleeing from police at high speed.



Authorities said Edward Moton, 46, ran several red lights before he crashed into Caddell, who had his cousin and a friend with him in the car.



Caddell, 19, and his cousin, 22-year-old Cory Hampton, were pronounced dead on the scene. Their friend, whose name hasn't been released, was hospitalized with broken bones but is expected to recover.



Moton was taken to UAB Hospital, where he died.



Irondale police detective Michael Mangina gave this account of what happened: Just before midnight, a patrol officer saw a suspicious vehicle in the area of 16th Street in Irondale. The officer checked the license plate and found the car had been reported stolen.



A few moments later, a man emerged from the darkness carrying a stolen air compressor from a nearby house. He got into the car, which was running, and took off.



The officer turned on his blue lights and tried to stop him, but to no avail. That officer and an officer in a second car followed the suspect for about three to four miles when, on Crestwood Boulevard at Oporto-Madrid Boulevard, the fleeing car crashed into the one being driven by Caddell at 11:53 p.m.



"We could tell the bad guy was driving pretty fast because he was so far ahead of our officers," Mangina said. "I would not say it was a high speed chase because there was a good deal of distance between them."



The pursuit was recorded from the Irondale officers' cars. "Our officers will go before a pursuit review panel," Mangina said. "I'm sure the outcome will show they were justified in everything they did."



Court records show Moton had a long criminal history dating to about 1994, including a string of arrests for receiving stolen property, breaking and entering a vehicle, drug possession, carrying a pistol without a license and burglary.



He was paroled from state prison in January 2008 after serving time for several felony convictions.



Close cousins



Hampton and Caddell were first cousins. Their mothers are sisters and they both were the eldest of their siblings. Both had attended Huffman High School. Caddell graduated from there last year; Hampton had graduated from a different high school.



Sheila Hampton said she and her son had lunch together on Wednesday. They had debated Chinese food, but settled on Arby's.



"I couldn't eat all of mine so I gave him the rest," Sheila Hampton said. "Little did I know that was going to be my last time sitting there with him."



Sheila Hampton said she got home from choir practice Wednesday night at the same time her son, her nephew and their friend arrived at the house.



"They went on downstairs and I heard them laughing and talking," she said. "I went on to bed."



Later, she received a phone call from her sister saying that their mother was sick and she needed to come over there. When she arrived, she found her mother wasn't sick at all, but that her son and nephew had been killed.



She said she didn't know too many details about what happened, but said she was told it was a chase.



"People always say that police need to cool chases because so many innocent people get killed," she said.



She was still trying to absorb the shock on Thursday. "I am doing OK," Sheila Hampton said. "I guess it all just hasn't sunk in yet."



Her sister, Debra Caddell, said much the same.



"I haven't seen him yet, so until then I won't know how I'm doing," she said.

She said her son was on his way to pick up his paycheck. "That was money he

worked hard for," she said.



She said she will most miss her son's smile. He was sweet, and would do anything for anybody. They both would, she said.



"They didn't mind helping anyone," she said. "They didn't see color, they just saw people."



Join the conversation by clicking to comment or e-mail Robinson at crobinson@bhamnews.com





