Three Fort Collins police officers who fired 24 times at a man wanted for four felonies were justified in using deadly physical force, the Larimer County district attorney has found.

Raymond Frederick Ault, 49, was shot and killed by multiple shots on Dec. 8 after Fort Collins police, acting on a tip, went to a 4-unit apartment building at 607 West Alpert Court in Fort Collins about 10 p.m. on Dec. 8.

The officers were Sgt. Jon Holsten, a 15-year veteran of the department; Officer Adam Ruehlen, an 11-year veteran, and Officer Josh Goldschmidt, who had been a Fort Collins officer about a year.

According to a report from Larimer County District Attorney Larry Abrahamson, the officers went to the apartment and were able to spot two people inside talking to a third individual, who was not visible.

They began knocking on the door and ringing the door bell. After about 30 minutes, two people – identified as Sara Maruska and Eric Polikon – came out of the apartment and told the officers Ault was still in the apartment.

A few moments later, Ault came to the door and took what the officers described as a “shooter’s stance” pointing what appeared to be a gun at them, according to the district attorney.

One of the officers – Goldschmidt – yelled at Ault to “show his hands,” said the district attorney.

All three officers said they saw a handgun in Ault’s hand.

In response, Goldschmidt fired eight times; Ruehlen fired nine rounds and Holsten fired seven rounds, said Abrahamson.

Abrahamson said that Ault was taken to the Medical Center of the Rockies where he died at 11:36 p.m.

During the course of the investigation, it was determined that Ault was holding a flashlight in his right hand when he came out of the apartment, said the district attorney. No weapon was found.

However Abrahamson said that the officers’ actions were justified after seeing Ault take up a “shooter’s stance” and holding what looked like a gun.

He said Goldschmidt repeated loud and clear verbal commands for Ault to show his hands. All the officers believed Ault posed a imminent threat and were justified in firing their weapons.

According to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation, Ault had a lengthy arrest record including possession of burglary tools, fraud, larceny, receiving stolen property, violation of the pawnbroker law, harassing communications and resisting an officer.

Ault was wanted on four felony warrants for burglary/menacing, escape from Community Corrections, theft and eluding.

Howard Pankratz: 303-954-1939 or hpankratz@denverpost.com.