SHARE A fence was damaged where a suspect in last night's shooting barged through between Sixth and Fifth streets, on Fifth Street's 2100 block. Police tape blocks off the Pizza Hut parking lot on Saturday morning. A man that died of a gunshot wound crashed his vehicle there, police believe. Bremerton police officers confer Friday night with Kitsap County sheriff’s deputies at the scene of a fatal shooting, near Fifth Street and Naval Avenue in Bremerton. (PHOTO COURTESY OF TIMOTHY LUGO)

By Kitsap Sun Staff

The man killed by a gunshot following a police chase late Friday has been identified as 27-year-old Kyle L. K. Hoapili, whose last known address was in Port Orchard.

New details issued Saturday by the Washington State Patrol say that Hoapili, after fleeing from police around 10 p.m. and exchanging gunfire with them in the 2100 block of Fifth Street near Naval Avenue, then went behind a building in a residential area.

A single gunshot was then heard. When authorities found him, he was unresponsive, with one gunshot wound to his head.

No officer was injured in the preceding gunfire exchange.

The State Patrol, which is conducting the investigation, is neither confirming nor denying that the single gunshot was self-inflicted, according to Trooper Todd Bartolac.

An autopsy will be performed by the Kitsap County Coroner's Office at 9 a.m. Monday. Results from ballistics tests are expected back from a lab Monday or Tuesday.

Local relatives of the man, when notified Saturday of his death, planned to contact other relatives of Hoapili's in Hawaii, according to Kitsap County Sheriff's Office spokesman Scott Wilson.

Before the shooting, a Kitsap County Sheriff's Office deputy began pursuing a vehicle driven by Hoapili along the 4200 block of Kitsap Way in Bremerton. Hoapili, who was wanted on a state Department of Corrections felony arrest warrant, headed east to around Fifth Street near Naval Avenue.

He then bailed out of the vehicle and ran, with police in pursuit.

According to the State Patrol, Hoapili allegedly shot at a Bremerton Police Department officer. The officer returned fire.

Hoapili then went behind a building in the residential neighborhood. That is when the single gunshot was heard. Heather Davis, a bartender at the nearby Fuzzy Naval Tavern, said Saturday morning that she saw shots exchanged and almost immediately, several police and aid units arriving.

A neighbor who did not wish to be identified said Saturday morning that she heard a commotion during the time of the incident and checked to make sure her doors were locked. She then heard a man burst through her outdoor fence's door, coming from her back yard to her front yard.

He kept running and she saw him holding something low to the ground in one of his hands.

"It's just sad when it happens so close to home," the neighbor said.

The State Patrol assumed the investigation from Bremerton police and the Kitsap County Sheriff's Office at their request in a routine move to assure transparency.

Reporter Josh Farley contributed to this report.