SANTA ANA – Investigators have found insufficient evidence that police committed a crime when they shot and killed a Santa Ana man armed with what turned out to be a replica handgun, according to the Orange County District Attorney’s Office.

Officers made numerous requests for Elmer Perez, 27, to drop what they believed to be a handgun before shooting him out of concern that he would injure them or his family during a 2010 confrontation sparked by reports of domestic violence in a townhome, according to a letter released Thursday outlining the results of the District Attorney’s Office investigation.

Family members at the time criticized police for shooting Perez in front of his girlfriend and 2-year-old son, claiming that he didn’t pose a danger to them and that they had called authorities to help Perez.

Perez’s stepfather called police shortly after 5 a.m. Dec. 16, 2010, telling dispatchers Perez was under the influence of drugs and was acting agitated toward his girlfriend, who was seven months pregnant at the time. His family told District Attorney’s Office investigators that Perez was “nonresponsive, agitated and acting strangely” after not sleeping for three days.

Perez’s stepfather told dispatchers that Perez was armed with a toy gun. However, when officers arrived at the townhome, the stepfather told them that he wasn’t sure if the gun was real or fake, according to the D.A.’s report.

Knowing that there was a woman and a baby inside the residence who were possibly at risk, Santa Ana police Cpl. Manny Moreno and officers David Prewatt, Tony Lee, Brandon Sontag and Adam Aloyian entered the home, the report said.

Investigators based their description of the events inside the home on a statement by Aloyian. The other officers did not provide voluntary statements to the D.A. investigators, according to the report.

Based on Perez’s behavior, Aloyian believed that he was under the influence of methamphetamine, a determination a later autopsy would confirm, according to the report.

Aloyian told investigators that Perez ignored numerous commands to drop the gun, which he said had no markings to indicate it was a replica.

Moreno, Prewatt, Lee and Sontag fired at Perez after he raised the gun above his waist and pointed it at them, according to the report.

As is routine with shootings involving police officers, the incident was investigated by the District Attorney’s Office.

The D.A. investigators determined that there was “insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that any Santa Ana police officer committed a crime” in connection with the shooting.

Court records show Perez had convictions for drug possession and use, resisting a police officer and possession of stolen property. His family contended that Perez had a drug problem but was not violent.

Contact the writer: 714-796-7939 or semery@ocregister.com