Police continue to investigate a fatal officer-involved shooting that left a a 45-year-old man dead in a Southeast Portland apartment building this morning.

The two Portland police officers involved in the shooting were placed on paid administrative leave.

The officers involved are both four-year veterans assigned to East Precinct The officers names will be released tomorrow officials said.

Police were first called to the apartment near the corner of 122nd Avenue and East Burnside Street just before 3 a.m. A caller complained that an argument had escalated to threats.

Police cleared the call without arrest but were called back to the Ventura Park Plaza for a report of armed threats. The 45-year-old man, later identified as Darryel Dwayne Ferguson, was armed with a handgun, the report claimed.

When the two officers encountered Ferguson they fired their weapons, said police spokesman Sgt. Pete Simpson. Ferguson did not shoot, Simpson said.

Officers said they lost sight of Ferguson and called for a SERT unit and hostage negotiator.

They discovered Ferguson dead of his injuries, and homicide detectives were called in. Police later said the handgun was a Colt Defender air pistol.

Shawn Bartmess, who can see the apartment door where the shooting took place from his peephole, said he got up at 4 a.m. this morning to get ready for his landscaping job, when he hard officers shouting “Get down! Get down!”

“I heard a rapid series of shots, and I could tell, as a gun enthusiast, that the shots were coming from more than one firearm,’’ Bartmess said. “I looked out the peephole and saw officers with guns drawn.”

Minutes later, he cracked open the door: "You could smell gunpowder in the air,” he said. Bartmess snapped a smartphone photo of shell casings that littered the hallway. He counted 16, he said.

Bartmess’ wife also looked out the peephole and heard an officer say “He pointed a gun at me,’’ Bartmess said.

Bartmess said the man who lived in apartment 201 had a wife, or a girlfriend who had two small children. Bartmess said the couple had moved into the apartment complex a few months ago. They invited residents who did not have plans for Thanksgiving to come eat with them, Bartmess said.

“I believe in law enforcement, that they are here to protect us,’’ Bartmess said. “But 16 shots in such close quarters, with children in the apartment, seems excessive.”

Police evacuated nearby apartments, including children in the unit where the threats were reported.

Residents of the apartment building were staying warm in a bus provided by TriMet. Ferguson's body was removed by the Multnomah County Medical Examiner at around 10:30 a.m. State medical examiner Dr. Karin Gunson said an autopsy was scheduled for Saturday morning.

The fatal police shooting is at least the fourth involving Portland police this year which is up from recent years, which had seen a decline.

There was 1 in 2009, two in 2008 and two in 2007.

--

and