Zachary Bingert, 21, lunged at cops moments after they entered a darkened room in his family's Glendale home. (Marino for News)

The knife-wielding Queens man shot to death by cops Wednesday night had slashed at the officers in a room where the only light came from a police flashlight, cops said.

Zachary Bingert, 21, lunged at cops moments after they entered a darkened room in his family's Glendale home, screaming, "Police! Don't move!" NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly said.

Advertisement

Three cops fired a total of eight rounds, striking Bingert nine times, Kelly said. Investigators believe one of the bullets struck him twice. One bullet hit him in the head; the other wounds were to his torso. One bullet was recovered from a wall near where Bingert was standing.

Bingert's mother had police to the Glendale apartment about 9:30 p.m. after he threatened her with a knife - at least the second time he had done so this year.

Advertisement

The mother had a restraining order against her son, who had been sleeping in a car outside the home. Kelly said the compassionate mother allowed the troubled young man to stay inside because of the cold.

The three officers who fired were treated at a hospital for minor injuries - including a cut on a sergeant's hand. Kelly said the wound could have come from Bingert's blade, though it also could have happened when the sergeant fell to the ground during the encounter.

Kelly said cops have been called to the home on three previous occasions to quell domestic disputes - including a fight in July during which Bingert threatened his mother with a knife.



The knife Zachary Bingert allegedly waved at cops. DCPI

Bingert had two arrests - one for menacing his mother the other for assaulting a girlfriend, Kelly said.

One neighbor said Bingert was open about his problems.

"He's a bit of a loose cannon," neighbor John Kostkiewicz said. "He was always telling me about the problems he had - fights, problems with police."

"Best way I could put it: he's a wild child," Kostkiewicz added. "But I'm very surprised. I never expected that kind of violence from him."

With Sarah Armaghan, Barry Paddock and Jake Pearson

Advertisement

jlauinger@nydailynews.com