MOBILE, Alabama -- A man shot and wounded another man, then killed himself late tonight at a south side home after a five-hour standoff that started when he took a couple hostage, Mobile Police Chief Micheal T. Williams said.



Police spokesman Officer Christopher Levy identified the dead man as 28-year-old Rasmee Moffett. He said the hostages were both 24, but he did not identify them.





The wounded man, who was shot in the leg, was wheeled from the scene on a gurney to an awaiting Mobile Fire-Rescue Department paramedic unit. He was sitting up and appeared conscious and responsive as he passed the row of media and crowd of onlookers.

Williams said the trouble at the home in the 1100 block of Sutton Avenue started shortly after 4:35 p.m., when police responded to a domestic disturbance. When officers arrived, Williams said Moffett fired a handgun several times and retreated into the home, taking the woman and man hostage.

Police, including patrol officers, the SWAT team, negotiators, a police chaplain and Williams, converged on the area and attempted to talk to Moffett.

Several neighbors who had seen Moffett frequently said he was the former boyfriend of the woman, and that police had been called to the home before.

Williams said that as time passed, police had more success staying in contact with the hostages, as Moffett refused to talk to officers.

Shortly before 9 p.m., a patrol car brought a man Williams described as Moffett’s father and set him up in front of the house with a megaphone to try to talk his son out of the house.

Spectators and media assembled half a block away could at one point hear the man plead, “J.C., come outside and do the right thing.”

A police officer also begged Moffett to come outside, but Williams said the gunman became more agitated, demanding a face-to-face conversation with his father.

“Under the circumstances, this could not be done,” Williams said.

A few minutes later, Williams said, Moffett shot the male hostage, and police entered the home. Moffett retreated to a back room and shot himself in the chest, Williams said. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

The incident disrupted life for the entire neighborhood along Sutton Avenue, a narrow street of older residences in a quarter-mile stretch between the east perimeter of the R.V. Taylor housing community and the westbound service road of Interstate 10, about three miles southwest of downtown.

One resident, Charles Coleman, waited at the police perimeter carrying clothes bought during a shopping trip, concerned for the welfare of his mother, who lives near the home where the standoff unfolded.

“She has high blood pressure, but she has her medicine with her,” Coleman said. He frequently called her and asked her to look out the window and relay police movements to media members.

A group of relatives and friends of the woman hostage stayed separated from the crowd of onlookers and media as the situation unfolded, but applauded SWAT members as they left the area.

Still, Williams expressed regret that not all the people involved in the standoff survived.

“Our officers did what they were trained to do,” Williams said. “Our goal when this started was to get everyone out alive.

“It was just unfortunate that the young man took his own life.”