Correction Appended.

Two Portland police

on Jan. 2 when they say the homeless man inside an abandoned Southeast Portland car wash walked toward them holding a knife with an 8-inch blade.

Higginbotham, 67, was struck 10 times and died from wounds to the chest and abdomen, according to grand jury records released Friday. He had two other knives in his coat pocket, and a blood-alcohol content of .26.

Reports

»

»

A Multnomah County grand jury found no criminal wrongdoing by Officers Larry Wingfield, a 19-year bureau veteran, and Jason Lile, a nearly 11-year bureau member.

Wingfield and Lile were near the end of their day shift that Sunday afternoon, but decided to provide back-up for a call involving a chronic trespasser who was bothering a private security guard at the Powell Street Station strip mall.

Wingfield was the first officer to talk to the security guard, but left after getting basic information to find the suspect and let the primary officer, who would write the main report, interview her in depth. Lile followed Wingfield.

"What I can do is go find him and detain him for Officer (Tim) Bacon before he gets too far away," Wingfield told jurors.

Meanwhile, security guard Vicky Snider told the primary officer about her history with the homeless man. She had banned him from the mall at Southeast 82nd and Powell Boulevard for calling her names and making threats. She said she had called police three days earlier.

More

That's when Higginbotham stood face-to-face with her, and told her "You're this close to dying," holding his index finger an inch from his thumb. But he had left by the time police arrived on Dec. 30.



On Jan. 2, Snider said she spotted Higginbotham walking toward her outside Discount World in the strip mall about 3 p.m. He yelled obscenities at her, called her a "wanna-be cop,'' and pointed his finger at her, saying "I'm going to hurt you really really bad.'' She said she grabbed her phone to call police, but he slapped it to the ground. By the time she picked it up, he was gone. He returned about an hour later while she was on the phone with her husband, she testified.



"He was just in my face and calling me all kinds of names again,'' Snider told jurors. "He just wouldn't get out of my face.'' This time, she was able to call 9-1-1 at 3:55 p.m.



At 4:04 p.m., Wingfield radioed he was pulling into the abandoned Lucky Car Wash at 3147 S.E. 82nd Ave. Wingfield first searched for a camper or a tent, unsure where the man would be because he hadn't talked to the security guard long enough to know the man was living inside the car wash.



He and Lile knew they were looking for a man, about 60 years old, wearing a red coat, blue jeans and known to carry a knife. The security guard wanted him arrested for trespassing.



Another homeless man at the car wash, Robert Graves, heard knocking on the windows when the police arrived. Graves waved to the officers, so they would meet him at the garage door at the west end of the car wash.



Graves immediately told the police that he had permission to be there, and that another man named Tom had contact with the owner. Police asked if Tom had been in a dispute at the mall. Graves didn't know, but directed police to the small office that Higgenbotham had made into his home. The door to the office was locked.



First Graves knocked on the door. He yelled that police were there, and wanted to talk to him. There was no response.



Then Wingfield knocked, and said, "Tom, this is Officer Wingfield. Portland police. We just want to talk to you. If you could come out and talk to us, that would be great."



Still no response. Wingfield, growing concerned, loudly asked Graves, "Hey, this guy got any weapons in there?" Graves told police he does, and that Tom is a two-tour Vietnam vet.



Higginbotham responded from behind the closed door, "Oh yeah, I got a weapon all right."



"That's when everything changed for me," Wingfield testified.



Wingfield and Lile backed up, and drew their guns. Wingfield commanded Tom to come out with his hands up. Lile radioed to dispatch they have a man with a weapon barricaded in a room.



Suddenly, the door opened. Wingfield saw a blade, and then Higgenbotham step out. Lile yelled repeatedly, "Drop the knife. Drop the knife."



"He steps out and he's looking at me, and he's got the eyes of like a shark," Wingfield said. "He looks mad. He looks angry...I knew he was going to make us shoot him.



"I started getting mad, getting angry that he was going to make us do that."



Lile fired his Taser with his left hand, but it was ineffective against Higginbotham's layers of clothes.



Wingfield said he kept backing up. "He's going to beat me before I get around the door and get out of here. It's just not going to work," he said. Wingfield, about eight feet from the man, said he had no options left. "The only thing left was shoot him...We didn't want to shoot him. That got us nothing."



Wingfield fired seven shots; Lile fired five. "I was scared that one of us could get stabbed and die or be seriously injured."



It was 4:06 p.m. when Wingfield radioed shots fired, subject down.



-- Maxine Bernstein

The article reflects a correction: The knife Higginbotham was carrying had a blade that was 8 inches long, according to grand jury testimony. The length of the blade was incorrect in the initial posting. The handle was 5 inches long.