Matthew Richard Anderson's suicide is reverberating two days later, and not just because Northglenn Police officer Dennis Alps is still recovering from a wound sustained during the standoff that preceded the sex offender's final act. Parents are aghast at learning that Anderson was living legally near Northglenn Middle School, despite a 2006 conviction for trying to entice what he thought was a young teen -- but which turned out to be a cop.

Although five communities in Colorado place restrictions on sex offenders living near schools, Northglenn is not among them -- so Anderson wasn't violating any procedures due to his choice of address. That came as a surprise to at least one parent featured in a Fox31 report on view below. View it after checking out a larger photo of Anderson and the original release issued by the NPD following the officer-involved shooting and its aftermath.

Northglenn Police Department release, January 3:

On January 3, 2011, at approximately 6:45p.m., Northglenn Police officers were attempting to execute a Felony search warrant at 1443 Bowman Place, on a Matthew Richard Anderson (DOB 10-26-70). Mr. Anderson had three Felony warrants out for his arrest, which included failed to register as a sex offender, internet sexual exploitation of a child and sexual assault on a child. Officers attempted to make contact at the front door of the residence, when a male suspect fired numerous shots out the front door, hitting one officer twice. The suspect barricade himself in the residence. Officer Dennis Alps was ground transported to a local hospital with a wound to his right shoulder. The wound is non life threatening. The Northglenn/Thornton SWAT team was activated along with other outside agencies. The SWAT Team attempted to contact the suspect numerous times over several hours with no success. At approximately 2a.m. the SWAT Team made entry into the residence. A body was found inside the residence with a self inflicted wound to the head. We are currently waiting identification of the body from the coroner's office.

More from our Colorado Crimes archive: "Phillip Greaves: Author of pedophile's guide busted by thought police."