FRAMINGHAM (CBS) - A man was shot and killed during a police raid in Framingham early Wednesday morning, according to the Middlesex District Attorney's Office.

Officers were executing a search warrant at a home on Fountain Street around 12:30 a.m. when, for some unknown reason, an officer's gun was fired.

WBZ-TV's Christina Hager reports.

"During the execution of the search warrant, initial reports indicate that a bullet was discharged from the Framingham Police Department issued weapon of a Framingham SWAT Team member that struck one of the residents," the D.A.'s office said in a statement.

Police outside the home on Fountain Street Wednesday morning.

A resident of the home, 68-year-old Eurie Stamps, was wounded. He died a short time later at Metro West Medical Center. According to MBTA spokesman Joe Pesaturo, Stamps worked for the MBTA as a machinists and repairer in bus operations for 20 years. He retired in May 2005.

WBZ News Radio's Lana Jones reports.

Podcast Your browser does not support the audio element.

"The investigation into the circumstances of the shooting continues and further details, including the name of the officer involved, will be released upon completion of the investigation," the D.A.'s office said.

"You look at this man and you could tell he could not move. He's considered handicapped. He takes two steps at a time because he has arthritis," said Stamp's niece, Adia Boston, Wednesday night. "If I can't trust the police then what do I really have? Nothing."

Witnesses said they heard three shots. Stamps' son, Marlon Stamps, says his father didn't have a gun. "My father? Eurie? Anyone who knows Eurie knows the only weapon was his mouth. He was loud," said the younger Stamps.

Two men, Stamps' stepson and the stepson's cousin, 20-year-olds Joseph Bushfan and Devon Talbert, were arrested at the scene. They were charged with possession with intent to distribute a class B drug and drug violation in a school zone.

They were arraigned in Framingham District Court Wednesday. Bushfan was ordered held on $5,000 cash bail and Talbert was released on personal recognizance.