Aurora cop's actions 'justified' in fatal shooting

The Jan. 7 shooting death of 15-year-old Erik Chavez by an off-duty Aurora police officer was ruled legal and justifiable Monday by the Kane County state's attorney's office and Aurora police.

Officer Pedro Rodriguez, an 11-year department veteran, also was cleared to return to regular duty.

Authorities said Rodriguez and his 13-year-old daughter were in his personal car about 3:30 p.m. Jan. 7 driving north on Fifth Street at South Avenue in Aurora.

Police said Rodriguez, who was in full uniform, saw Chavez shooting a revolver at a group of other teenagers and confronted Chavez as the teen ran across Fifth Street with the gun still in his hand.

Rodriguez identified himself as an Aurora police officer, authorities said, and ordered Chavez numerous times to drop the weapon. Chavez refused, continued running toward another teen, and turned toward Rodriguez, pointing his gun at the officer.

Fearing for both his life and that of his daughter, Rodriguez fired and connected with four shots, police said. Chavez later was pronounced dead at Rush-Copley Medical Center in Aurora.

"The taking of a human life is never the desired outcome for any police officer and is the absolute last resort," Chief Greg Thomas said in a written statement. "After careful review of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this unfortunate incident, I find officer Rodriguez complied not only with the law, but with all department polices and procedures. In fact, I believe his actions to be heroic in that he risked both his own life and that of his child, to protect the lives of others."

First Assistant State's Attorney Jody Gleason, who reviewed the case for the Kane County state's attorney's office, agreed.

"Based on my review of the situation, I am convinced that (Rodriguez) acted properly when he discharged his firearm," she said. "The officer believed that his life or his daughter's life was in jeopardy when the suspect pointed his weapon at the officer and the officer fired upon the suspect. I find his actions to be completely justified."