Archived Story

Saturday, June 2, 2001

Fraud suspect killed in chase

crime : San Bernardino man crashes in Cajon Pass after fleeing police at Union Bank.

By SCOTT VANHORNE/Staff Writer



CAJON PASS — A fraud suspect died on a brush-covered hillside Friday afternoon after his car careened off Interstate 15 as he led officers on a 130-mph chase from Barstow.



The San Bernardino County Coroner’s office identified the man as Larry Eugene Boyd, 32, of San Bernardino.



The action began about 1 p.m. Friday in a Union Bank on Main Street in Barstow. Boyd was at the bank trying to pick up checks and an ATM card from a fraudulently obtained bank account, Barstow Police Detective Mike Hunter said.



Boyd had opened the account on May 21, using a driver’s license number belonging to a woman living in Southern California. Her name was not released.



Bank officials caught on to the fraud and notified the Barstow Police Department. Detectives told bank employees to contact them if Boyd came back.



On Friday, he returned. Bank employees tipped off detectives. Barstow Police Officer Randy Duran showed up and confronted Boyd.



The two men scuffled, and Boyd pushed Duran to the ground. He then jumped into a 2001 Mercedes Benz and sped away.



Police chased Boyd through Barstow as he made his way to southbound Interstate 15.



Once on the freeway, California Highway Patrol officers picked up the chase, CHP Lt. Glen Moore said.



Boyd exited at Lenwood Road and hid in the parking lot of Factory Merchants Mall.



He fled when officers spotted him there, and drove back onto the freeway at Outlet Center Drive. Boyd left the freeway again at Stoddard Wells Road and got back on from D Street in Victorville.



Barstow Police officials said Boyd tried to ram a CHP car during the chase. He pushed his way through heavy traffic by driving on the right shoulder to pass cars, Hunter said.



The pursuit continued through the Victor Valley at speeds reaching 130 mph.



“He was having trouble controlling the car because of the speeds,” Moore said.



Shortly before 2 p.m., Boyd lost control of the Mercedes Benz as he tried to pass a car by driving on the shoulder next to the Cleghorn Road on-ramp near Devore.



The car rolled down a steep embankment, tossing Boyd onto a brush-covered hillside. CHP paramedics attempted to revive him with cardiopulmonary resuscitation, but could not save his life.



Paramedics pronounced Boyd dead at 2:21 p.m.



Moore said CHP officers were preparing a spike strip, a device that disables a vehicle by puncturing the tires, about eight miles from where the car crashed.



“The way he was driving he could have very well involved other people,” Moore said.



CHP officers are investigating the crash. Barstow Police officers are investigating the charges of forgery, fraud and assault on a peace officer.

Return to Desert Dispatch