SANTA ANA – An 18-year-old suspected gang member fatally shot by police Sunday afternoon has been identified as Martin Ruiz of Santa Ana, police said Monday.

Gang detectives were looking for Ruiz in connection with a probation violation involving weapons, when they spotted him running to his home in the 1100 block of South Shelton Street, Santa Ana police Cpl. Anthony Bertagna said.

Ruiz opened the gate and officers were attacked by a pit bull, Bertagna said. As an officer shot and killed the pit bull, Ruiz jumped several fences and hid in a shed in the backyard of a neighbor’s home, he said.

“When officers went to try to find him, he split from that house to the next house over,” Bertagna said. “He went in though the front door, but it’s unknown if he was let in, if the door was open or if he broke in.”

Bertagna said there was an altercation in the neighbor’s living room, a gang detective fired his weapon, and Ruiz was killed.

A knife was found next to Ruiz, he said.

No officers were injured in the shooting, police said. The number of shots fired and the identity of the officers involved has not yet been disclosed.

Bertagna said an autopsy is expected to be performed Monday.

Anabel Gil, 22, who lives in the neighborhood, said she saw her cousin run but the dog did not provoke the officers.

“The dog didn’t attack,” she said. “He was barking (because) the police just came inside.”

Gil said her cousin ran from the police and jumped the fence into her neighbor’s yard. She said her cousin had nowhere to go and she heard shots being fired.

“That’s what upsets me…. He was cornered and had no where to go,” she said. “They don’t want to give us any updates. They just keep pushing us back and that’s what makes me think that there was something wrong.”

The shooting was under investigation by the Orange County district attorney’s office and the Santa Ana Police Department.

&amp;amp;amp;nbsp;&amp;amp;amp;nbsp;&amp;amp;amp;lt;p&amp;amp;amp;gt;Your browser does not support iframes.&amp;amp;amp;lt;/p&amp;amp;amp;gt;

Contact the writer: 714-704-3709 or desalazar@ocregister.com