JO MORELAND

Staff Writer

OCEANSIDE -- A young Oceanside man who survived a deadly two-carcrash that killed both drivers in Vista is slowly recovering fromsevere injuries.

Advertisement

Cory Allen, 19, was a passenger in a Toyota Corolla when a carbeing chased by Oceanside police slammed into the Toyota on June 2at Melrose Drive and Olive Avenue in Vista.

He suffered massive facial injuries and brain bruising, said hismother, Jenny Allen of Oceanside. She said her son requiredemergency surgery then to remove his spleen.

“He was in intensive care for almost two weeks,” Allen said. “Wedidn’t know if he was going to live or die for about a week. Theykept him sedated. Nothing mattered. I just wanted him to get well.I’d take him back in any condition.”

On Wednesday, she said, Cory Allen underwent reconstructivefacial surgery that will leave his face slightly altered. No oneknows yet how fully he will recover from the brain injuries, saidAllen.

Cory Allen was a passenger in a Toyota Corolla driven by MyraAnn Rivera, 23, of Vista.

The single mother of two young daughters died. So did DanielUmpriani, 19, also of Vista, the driver of the car that careenedinto Rivera’s Toyota just after officers began chasing him.

At the time, police said, someone reported Umpriani as asuspected drunken driver and the officers had just seen Umpriani’scar almost hit another vehicle.

The California Highway Patrol is investigating the fatal crash.Highway patrol spokesmen said this week that the blood alcoholreport for Umpriani isn’t available yet and the investigation maytake up to 90 days.

Wanda Rivera of Vista, Myra Ann Rivera’s mother, said a highwaypatrol officer who is investigating the crash has told her thatUmpriani was under psychiatric care. A highway patrol spokesmansaid he couldn’t confirm that information.

“It still hurts, no matter how you look at it,” Rivera said.”Running from the police, he shouldn’t have done that. The hurt isstill there, the anger.”

Myra Ann Rivera -- whose daughters are Miranda, 5, and Mireya, 7months -- would have graduated Friday night from Maric College.

Instead, Miranda accepted her mother’s cap and gown, signed byclassmates, during the graduation at the San Luis Rey Mission. Shealso received her mother’s graduation certificate from thecollege’s medical administrative assistant program.

Wanda Rivera and Jenny Allen said they wanted to thank peoplefor their sympathy, support, prayers, cards, flowers and donationsto a memorial fund to finance Miranda’s and Mireya’s needs now andin the future.

People have donated $16,000 to the Myra Rivera Memorial Fund,c/o Wanda Rivera, PO Box 4098, Oceanside, CA 92052. “For DepositOnly” may be written on the back of the checks, which are beingplaced in a Bank of America account, number 17938-02741.

Half the money -- $8,000 -- came from the New Venture ChristianFellowship Church in Oceanside, Wanda Rivera said. She said schoolsare raising money for a separate educational fund for thegirls.

Allen said she also wanted to thank the doctors and staff atPalomar Medical Center for saving her son’s life. Cory Allen isallowed to have a few visitors at a time now, she said.

“He doesn’t remember anything about the accident,” Allen said.”He doesn’t know anything about Myra. He knows he was in a seriouscar accident. He doesn’t know who with.”

On the advice of a trauma counselor, she said, the family iswaiting until Cory Allen asks before telling him anything. On hisfirst real day of consciousness on June 15, Allen said, Cory didask in writing how his best friend “Little Pablo” was doing.

Myra Ann Rivera’s younger brother, Pablo Rivera II, 19, was withher and Cory Allen that night. Pablo Rivera, who suffered moderateinjuries, had asked his older sister to pick up their longtimefriend after a social gathering so Cory Allen didn’t drink anddrive.

“Besides ‘I love you,’ that was the last thing I told him --’Don’t drink and drive,’ ” Allen said.

Scared and shocked after the crash, she said she is just nowstarting to realize how bad it was. Cory Allen didn’t have medicalinsurance and the family is trying to get Medi-Cal coverage, Allensaid.

She said she may be able to start returning to work next week asa nanny, and the other four children in the family, young adultsranging in age from 16 to 26, are doing OK.

However, said Allen, her husband goes to work and finds itdifficult to get anything done.

“But I think it’s pulling us back together,” she said.

Contact staff writer Jo Moreland at (760) 901-4085 orjmoreland@nctimes.com.

6/23/01