By Tayleigh Davis - bio | email



DECATUR COUNTY, GA (WALB) - A Decatur County woman was killed Saturday night when her car crashed during a chase with state troopers. It started west of Attapulgus. The state patrol says Latricka Sloan avoided a safety check point and drove off.

That's when troopers tracked her down and performed a Precision Immobilization Technique (PIT) maneuver. Sloan lost control of her car and crashed. Pictures are the only memories 17-year-old Breshonda James has of her mom.

" It's indescribable pain," said James. "Nothing that I've ever felt in my life."

Georgia State Patrol officials say 32-year-old Latricka Sloan was driving her Chevrolet Impala towards a road check at Highway 241 and 309 west around 10:00 Saturday night. She made a U-turn before the check and drove back towards Attapulgus where she lived.

Troopers caught up with Sloan about five miles away on East Griffin Avenue. A trooper performed a PIT maneuver to end the chase. A witness says the car spun around and flipped into a drainage ditch.

"This car wasn't going fast," said witness, Johnnie Gibson. "I just assumed he was going to pass like he was going to Hwy 27 towards Florida but then I heard him hit the car."

Debris, broken glass, and mangled metal are all that's left of the crash. Sloan's daughter was returning from a basketball game at Bainbridge High School. She said she had just talked to her mom about 30 minutes prior to the wreck.

"She was a loving, caring person," her daughter James said. "She loved her kids and stood behind us 100% and she always came to the door with a smile on her face to greet her kids."

Sloan had four kids and was soon to be a grandma. James says she's getting through her mom's death with the the help of family and faith.

Sloan would have turned 33 February 10th. Georgia State Patrol would not go on camera and the incident remains under investigation.

The State Patrol Specialized Collision Reconstruction Team (SCRT) is assisting with the investigation. Right now it isn't clear why Sloan avoided the road block but troopers say her license was revoked in Florida and she was not licensed to drive a car in Georgia. Troopers say Sloan was not wearing her seat belt.

Copyright 2011 WALB. All rights reserved. Feedback