(CNN) -- Before a man went on a shooting rampage inside a Detroit police station, he kidnapped and sexually assaulted a 13-year-old girl who escaped hours before the police attack, authorities confirmed Sunday.

Lamar Deshea Moore, 38, who was mortally wounded by police, wounded four officers January 23.

Police say Moore kidnapped the runaway girl about 10 days before, police Sgt. Eren Stephens told CNN.

"The assault case is closed," said the spokeswoman. "She was kidnapped, held hostage, sexually assaulted and escaped."

Moore's motive for the attack is not known. He had a relative who was scheduled to be sentenced for double homicide, Police Chief Ralph Godbee said last week.

Moore held the girl against her will in the basement of his home, said Stephens, adding the victim also was handcuffed to a toilet. The unidentified girl escaped in her underwear hours before Moore's attack, police said.

"She was still wearing the handcuffs" when she rushed to a neighborhood resident who contacted police, Stephens said.

Investigators say police had surrounded Moore's empty house while they were waiting for a search warrant to enter the home. At the same time, Moore walked into the precinct and started his shooting rampage, they said.

Police say they have interviewed Moore's fiancee, but wouldn't comment further Sunday.

Police released a graphic surveillance video on Friday that shows the gunman identified as Moore indiscriminately firing inside the police precinct and lunging across a counter with a shotgun.

Godbee said his department released the 68-second video to show the "tremendous acts of heroism" of officers and to be transparent in its investigation.

The video does not show all those involved in the incident, Godbee told reporters. "We are thankful to God that all four members who were injured are going to be OK," he said.

The footage provides two angles of the station and a large semicircular counter. Officers are shown talking with each other behind the counter before the gunman approaches and opens fire.

A shoe repairman also was in the station, police said.

Several officers crouch and return fire with handguns. After a barrage of rounds, Moore, clad in a jacket, leaps over the counter and continues the gunfire.

He and a seriously wounded officer exchange rounds at point-blank range, before he circles around the table and collapses, mortally wounded. The gunman apparently ran out of ammunition, Logan said.

The home where Moore was staying caught fire early last Tuesday and was heavily damaged, police said. Detroit Fire Capt. Kwaku Atara told CNN the fire had been ruled arson.