This morning, the Oakland Police Department released new details about the January 26 shooting of Martin Flenaugh, 19, by police.

According to an OPD press release, police were investigating reports of gunshots fired near the 7600 block of Lockwood late Wednesday afternoon by two men in a red Infinity. The police pursued a car matching that description, which ran a red light, crashed into another vehicle, spun out and burst into flames near the 8500 block of San Leandro. Jereme Brown, 24, was driving the car, and Flenaugh was the passenger, according to police.

Brown fled the vehicle but was arrested by police. According to the OPD press release, Flenaugh was shot by officers after he refused to cooperate and confronted the officers with multiple firearms. He was declared dead at the scene.

In December, Oakland police also shot and killed another 19-year-old man involved in a car chase. Oakland resident Obataiye Edwards was riding in a car that police believe was used in connection with a December 17 shooting in West Oakland, and that was also believed to be involved in a gang-related shooting planned for later that day in a West Oakland neighborhood known as “the ACORN.” After a three-mile chase, the car crashed into a house on the 1300 block of E. 33rd Street and the men in the car fled on foot. Two officers shot Edwards after he drew a handgun and aimed it at them.

On Saturday, an officer with the Oakland Unified School District police, which is separate from the Oakland Police Department, shot and killed 20-year-old Raheim Brown of San Francisco, after he allegedly attacked another officer with a screwdriver. Officers had approached Brown because he was sitting in an allegedly stolen car with the hazard lights on near Skyline High School, which was holding a dance.

The Alameda County District Attorney’s Office and Oakland Homicide Investigators have begun an investigation into the circumstances surrounding Martin Flenaugh’s death. Anyone with information about the incident is urged to contact the Homicide Section of the Alameda County District Attorney’s Office at 510-238-3821.