JANELLE STECKLEIN

Two friends who were with Claudio Trujillo during a Jan. 30 shootout in downtown Amarillo said Saturday his last thoughts were to get them to safety.

The friends said Trujillo, 24, didn't know who was shooting at him as he tried to escape a parking lot brawl in his SUV. He was just trying to survive.

Santino Bretado, 24, and Martin Guillen, 27, spoke publicly for the first time of their friend' s final moments during a news conference at Amarillo attorney Jesse Quackenbush's office. Trujillo's widow, Claudia, 23, and his daughter, Katrina, 5, also spoke.

"While we were in the truck, I thought we were going to die," Guillen said.

Four officers fired 40 shots at Trujillo's SUV. He was hit five times, in the head, chest and legs. The Tyson Foods worker died Feb. 2.

Police have said Trujillo, 24, failed to heed their demands that he stop his SUV after officers approached the vehicle.

Bretado and Guillen , along with two other friends who said they witnessed the shooting, were celebrating Bretado's 24th birthday that night. The men said they became embroiled in a confrontation with two rival groups in the parking lot that quickly escalated into the shooting . Bretado was shot in the arm and shocked with a Taser by police, and Guillen handcuffed and detained, the men said.

Amarillo police spokesman Brent Barbee declined to respond, referring comment to the Potter-Randall Special Crimes Unit and Police Chief Robert Taylor's office. Neither could be reached for comment Saturday.

Bretado said he and four friends met at Taco s Garcia where they had drinks. The celebration then moved to Le Chateau at 711 S. Polk St.

Claudia Trujillo said her husband knew the conditions of his parole forbade him to be at nightclubs and bars.

"With my luck something is going to happen," Claudia said her husband told her earlier that day. "He's always been at the wrong place at the wrong time. All the times he got into trouble, he was at the wrong place at the wrong time."

She said Claudio Trujillo had turned his life around and was working hard to support their family.

"He would do anything for his friends," she said.

Claudio Trujillo and his friends left Le Chateau about 2 a.m. Fabian Martinez and Gabriel Salazar said they'd each had five or six beers. Guillen and Bretado said they weren't counting their drinks, but agreed they were intoxicated.

The friends said Claudio Trujillo was drinking, but weren't sure how many beers he had.

The men said they walked to the nearby parking lot where Claudio Trujillo's Chevy Tahoe was parked.

When they arrived, they found a vehicle full of Hispanic men blocking the Tahoe. Those men were arguing with about eight black men, who were on foot, Martinez said.

Martinez said his group asked the others to move out of their way.

The men started yelling, and fists started fly. At some point, the Hispanic men left in their vehicle.

The remaining men began "swarming" the Tahoe, Marinez said.

Martinez said he kicked the SUV's door closed so Claudio Trujillo, Bretado and Guillen could flee.

"We're telling them to go, go," Martinez said.

Martinez and Salazar started to run away.

Then the pair heard four gunshots. They said one of the men they were fighting was firing a gun at the back of the fleeing SUV. Martinez and Salazar ducked for cover.

Amarillo police later identified the alleged gunman as Michael Aleer Manyuon, 28, and arrested him on a charge of deadly conduct by discharge of a firearm.

Mayhem broke out on the street as nearly 100 people leaving the bars started screaming and dropping to the ground looking for cover, Salazar said.

Inside the Tahoe, everything happened in a blur, Guillen said. The men ducked for cover as a bullet shattered the back window.

"I'll get you out of here!" Bretado said Trujillo vowed as the shots rang out. Those were his last words, Bretado said.

He said none of the men inside the vehicle knew police were present. Bretado and Guillen said officers did not identify themselves before shooting.

Police have said they ordered Trujillo to stop.

"If we had seen the police, that's help for us," Bretado said. "He's a good guy. If he had seen the cops, he would have stopped."

Salazar and Martinez said they saw about five Amarillo police officers approach the SUV from the front and sides and start shooting.

They said they never heard police identify themselves and that the vehicle was moving slowly.

When they realized what was happening, the two men said they dashed to the middle of Polk shouting at police to stop shooting.

Inside the SUV, Bretado and Guillen said they didn't know police were shooting at them.

"It was just a big blur," Bretado said.

He said it didn't feel like the SUV was moving, but suddenly it struck the side of a restaurant and came to stop.

"I looked up and he was hit," Bretado said of Claudio Trujillo. A bullet also struck Bretado's arm. He was sitting in the front passenger seat. Saturday, his arm remained in a sling.

"You could see the blood running down my arm," he said.

Police yelled for everyone to get back.

Martinez and Salazar said they heard Guillen scream from inside the Tahoe, "He's shot! He's shot! He's shot!"

Police screamed: "Put your hands up!"

Bretado said police demanded he raise both arms above his head, even after he told officer's he couldn't move his arm.

Quackenbush said an officer used a Taser on Bretado. Police accounts only mention that officers used a Taser on Manyuon . Bretado said he was shocked with a Taser and thrown to the ground by police.

Guillen said police threw him to the ground and cuffed him.

All of the men said they were unarmed . Police have said they did not find a gun inside the Tahoe.

A man who alleges police beat him outside a nearby nightclub in the minutes leading up to the shooting was also at the news conference.

Tobin Tortella, 32, of Amarillo, said he witnessed the shootout from the back of a patrol car , and the event didn't unfold as police have said .

He said an officer neither stepped in front of the Tahoe nor placed his hands on the vehicle, and that Claudio Trujillo never made aggressive maneuvers toward any officer.