UPDATED 2 p.m. with photo of deputy shot by police.

ST. LOUIS • A man fatally shot by police when he appeared to reach for a gun late Thursday in St. Louis' Carondelet neighborhood was an off-duty sheriff's deputy distraught over a breakup, authorities said.

A St. Louis police officer shot Timothy Kern three times at about 10:30 p.m. Thursday, police said.

Kern, 53, worked as a deputy for the St. Louis sheriff's department for the past nine or 10 years, said his daughter, Tosha Porter of Belleville. He lived in the 5900 block of Pennsylvania Avenue, a few blocks from where he was shot.

Authorities said the incident began when two uniformed St. Louis police officers en route to an unrelated call saw two men standing in the street at the intersection of Dover Street and Michigan Avenue, near where Michigan becomes Virginia Avenue. The men seemed to be arguing, police say. One of the men was Kern, who was not in uniform.

The men were blocking the street and Kern was yelling and seemed agitated, police said. When the officers got out of their squad car to investigate, they noticed that Kern had a pistol at his waist, authorities said. It was unclear if the gun was in a holster.

The officers told Kern to show his hands, but police say he went for the pistol instead and turned toward the officers with it.

One of the officers fired several shots, hitting Kern three times.

Kern was taken to a hospital, where he died.

St. Louis Police Capt. Michael Sack said Kern was intoxicated and distraught over a breakup earlier in the night with a woman.

The man Kern was talking with was a friend and the two men were not fighting, Sack said. The second man corroborated police accounts of what happened, he said.

Porter, the daughter of Kern, said the family is questioning the official account of what happened.

She said her father was likely reaching for his badge, which he kept in his front pocket, to show the officer who he was. Porter said that he wouldn't have been reaching for his gun.

"We want answers," Porter said. "I'm not going to let this get dusted under the rug. I think they started firing on him because they saw the gun."

Porter wasn't there, but she said she's seen her father in situations where he was pulled over in a traffic stop, for example, and knows what he automatically does next.

"He was probably saying, 'I got an ID, I got an ID,'" Porter said. "Everytime he was with me and we were pulled over or whatever, the cop would come up and he'd say, 'I'm a sheriff's deputy' and show his badge.

"I don't think he was going for his gun. I think he was trying to keep his badge out," Porter added.

Police have not identified the friend who was with Kern on the street, and Porter said she doesn't know who he might be. She said she would like to speak with him to hear his account.

Porter said her father had several duties at the sheriff's department, including transporting prisoners, but his most recent assignment was to monitor people who came in for drug testing.

Before working in St. Louis, he worked at a prison in Wisconsin. Before that, he worked for Boys Town in St. James, Mo., she said.

Porter said she knew her father was dating a woman and heard about the breakup Thursday but had never met her.

Porter said her father did not have his department-issued weapon with him Thursday night. She knows this, she said, because that gun is at his home and she must now return it to his employer. Instead, the weapon Kern must have had with him was his own personal gun, she said.

Porter said her father always carryied a weapon whenever he took walks around the neighborhood. He kept it in a waist holster with Velcro loops.

Porter had to identify her father's body Friday morning. She said she plans to speak tonight with the homicide supervisor who is heading the investigation into her father's death. She said she wants to know why the officer shot her father.

She said the officer who killed her father "left eight grandkids and three adult kids to pick up the pieces of this."

St. Louis police haven't publicly identified the officer who shot Kern but said he is 42 years old and a 16-year veteran of the force. The officer will be placed on paid leave, as is standard procedure.

William Hall, 41, lives in a home on Michigan Avenue overlooking the intersection where the shooting happened. Hall said he heard the gunfire Thursday night and looked outside.

Hall said he heard seven or eight shots but only saw the final shot, when the officer was about six feet away. He saw the man on the ground, lying in a fetal position on his side. The officer then nudged the man with his foot, Hall said.

"I saw him put the last shot in him, that's when he was walking up on him," Hall said. "It's kind of sad how they killed him."

Hall said the area was not well-lit and the police car didn't have any lights shining on the scene.

Kern and the man he'd been talking with often walked down the street together, Hall said. He often saw them walking to a nearby store.

Another officer responding to the shooting scene suffered minor injuries when he lost control of his squad car on an icy street nearby and was involved in an accident, authorities said.