Adam D. Young

A Lubbock police officer shot and killed one man they say held a woman at knife point during an early morning domestic assault Sunday in a Central Lubbock apartment.

The officer, a 4 1/2 year Lubbock police veteran, shot 25-year-old Jermar Antwan McKinzie during the reported domestic dispute about 4:30 a.m. in an apartment in the 5200 block of Kenosha Avenue, according to Lubbock police.

Police received a 4:24 a.m. call from Zitra Rivera, 20, reporting she and her boyfriend, McKinzie were having a domestic dispute at her residence in the Central Lubbock apartment complex.

"An obviously violent situation erupted during the 911 call and could be heard by our call taker over the phone as the 911 line was left open throughout the altercation," Lubbock police Capt. Greg Stevens said in a news release.

The audio, released to the media hours after the incident, contains smacking noises, a man's voice yelling profanities and Rivera screaming and crying.

Rivera told the call-taker McKinzie kicked in her front door, hit her and was trying to get his stuff out of her apartment.

Officers arrived to the apartment by 4:27 a.m., according to police.

Officer Jennifer Breazeale and Sgt. Michael Jordan reported they could hear yelling and screaming as they approached Rivera's apartment.

Breazeale, reaching Rivera's front door, reportedly saw McKinzie holding a knife and standing over Rivera, according to police.

McKinzie is accused of ignoring the officer's verbal commands to drop the knife, prompting the officer to fire two shots from her handgun.

Both rounds struck McKinzie in the torso, killing him.

Breazeale reported over the radio that shots had been fired at 4:29 a.m.

Investigators believe Rivera was assaulted prior to the officers' arrival.

Rivera was taken to University Medical Center for evaluation of non-life-threatening injuries.

Breazeale, a 4 1/2 year veteran of the Lubbock Police Department, was placed on administrative leave, as per standard procedure, while the shooting is investigated.

Police only released the first 2:16 of the 911 call, citing other portions contained evidence that could not immediately be released.

It was not clear late Sunday if the shooting incident was recorded in unreleased portions of the call.

As of Sunday, McKinzie had three pending 2010 Lubbock County felony charges of possession of a controlled substance with intent to deliver, according to online Lubbock County court records.

He had been convicted and served jail time for four misdemeanor charges of possession of less than two ounces of marijuana between 2007 and 2009.

To comment on this story:

adam.young@lubbockonline.com ? 766-8725

shelly.gonzales@lubbockonline.com ? 766-8747