Reginald Hardaman struggled with mental problems for decades, losing contact with his wife and four children, begging on the streets, even driving his mother away as he became more aggressive and abusive.



Even so, his older brother, Sidney, can't explain why Hardaman would have shot an officer Wednesday while in the back of an unmarked Chicago squad car, as police alleged. Officers returned fire and killed him.



Chicago police said two Near North District officers took Hardaman, 56, into custody Wednesday afternoon after a complaint he was hassling people for money downtown. As they drove to a station, Hardaman, handcuffed, managed to pull out a gun and open fire, wounding one of the officers in the back, police said. The officers scrambled out of the car at Chicago Avenue and Wells Street and fired through a window, killing Hardaman at the busy River North intersection.



"How could they have overlooked that (gun) in the process of putting him in the car, especially when they had a confrontation with him?" Hardaman's brother asked. "Why didn't they search him well or restrain him well, knowing he could either hurt himself or hurt them?"



Police haven't said if the two veteran officers searched Hardaman or if his hands were cuffed in front or in back, but one law enforcement source said the officers searched Hardaman but missed the gun because he wore several layers of clothing.



The Independent Police Review Authority is investigating the shooting. "We'll be looking into what happened before, during the shooting and after it," said spokesman Mark Smith.



The two officers involved in Wednesday's shooting had arrested an unarmed Hardaman downtown in May 2009 after he allegedly followed pedestrians even after they had rebuffed his requests for money, according to court records.



Hardaman has a criminal record dating to 1990 for mostly petty offenses, records show. His only felony conviction came in 1992 on an attempted robbery charge. He was sentenced to three years in prison.



Sidney Hardaman said he hadn't seen his brother since last Mother's Day when family members called police to the family home on the Far South Side because Reginald was mistreating their mother.



Hardaman said his brother was hospitalized several times for mental illness at hospitals in Elgin and on the South Side in his late 30s. He said his brother was married in the 1980s and had four children. But the marriage ended and his brother was not involved in the lives of his children.



"He drifted off into those streets, and he never made it back from it," he said.



Tribune reporter Ryan Haggerty and William Lee contributed to this report.



jgorner@tribune.com



csadovi@tribune.com