When Arturo Ibarra was freed from prison a few years ago, his wife, Sonia, said she took him back only after he promised to leave his criminal life behind.



And by all appearances, she said, he seemed to be living up to his end of the bargain, rising before dawn every weekday, working as many as 60 hours a week as a roofer and taking their kids to the movies and the mall on the weekends.



But in a shocking turnabout, Ibarra was gunned down last weekend by Chicago police after he and two others were suspected of killing two men and slitting the throat of a third in what police said was a drug-related robbery and then shooting an officer in the leg during a wild getaway attempt and chase on the Far North Side.



Perhaps even more stunning, police said they suspected Ibarra in three other bloody robberies of men police alleged were drug dealers in the last year, in which a total of 10 others were killed, often in execution style. Police have not revealed how much in cash or drugs might have been taken overall.



"I never suspected anything, never," Sonia Ibarra, his wife of 11 years, said in the kitchen of the family's modest Southwest Side home. "He treated us very good, especially the kids. I never saw him bring extra money to the house, only his work money, and that's it."



Ibarra, 37, and Raul Segura, 36, were highly regarded co-workers at a West Side roofing business who put in long hours, working some weekends if an emergency repair was needed. Segura, who had worked for the company for more than two decades, had lied about his age in order to get a job there at 15, according to Randy Kuhn, the owner.



"People here are devastated," Kuhn said.



Segura's brother, Geronimo, was at a loss to explain how his brother might have gotten involved, shaking his head and sometimes staring into space on the front porch of the Little Village home of his brother, his brother's wife and their two children.



"It's crazy," Geronimo Segura said. "He worked hard. He had money. I don't understand it."



The third suspect, Augustin Toscano, 29, a cousin of Sonia Ibarra's, lived with his mother, his wife and two children and worked off and on, sometimes helping a relative who was a plumber, according to his family.



As it turned out, Ibarra, Segura and Toscano were under surveillance by police at the very time that the robbery and double homicide went down Feb. 26 inside an apartment building in the Edgewater neighborhood.



Police had been periodically following Ibarra since at least last summer because he was a suspect in a quadruple murder and two triple murders, all drug-related, according to law enforcement sources.



Gang investigation officers watched as Ibarra and the two others walked into the building in the 5800 block of North Winthrop Avenue about 5:30 p.m. Police said they later learned that the men allegedly planned to rob at gunpoint three men to whom they allegedly had arranged to sell drugs. As part of a ruse, they carried a package to make it appear it contained bricks of cocaine, authorities alleged. In the apartment, robbers bound the men's hands behind their backs with their own belts, slashed their throats and made off with tens of thousands of dollars in cash, according to the charges and sources.



The surveillance officers saw Ibarra and the two others run out of the building but didn't immediately realize what had happened. The lone survivor came stumbling out, bleeding from his throat wound. Neighbors called 911 and responding officers found the two bodies.



Police pulled in front of Ibarra's Ford F-150 pickup, forcing it to a halt near Thorndale Avenue and Broadway. As the officers exited the squad car, the suspects opened fire, wounding one officer in the leg, authorities said. Ibarra, driving the truck, struck the squad car and sped away.



Police pursued as Ibarra drove at high speed, striking other vehicles and driving onto sidewalks in one of Chicago's most crowded neighborhoods. The chase came to an end about a mile from the killings when the truck crashed into a utility box at Devon and Greenview avenues.



One passenger aimed a gun as officers approached the truck, police said, leading an officer to fire a single gunshot, fatally wounding Ibarra in the head. The other two were taken into custody. Police said they recovered two handguns, a bloody knife with a half-foot blade and six bundles of cash from Ibarra's pickup.



Not long after, at Ibarra's home in the Brighton Park neighborhood, about a dozen officers swarmed through the two-flat, searching for evidence as his wife and children looked on. Sonia Ibarra said police gave her no idea what had happened. She said she didn't know of his death, though a cousin had told her about Toscano's arrest.



"I'm like, 'Oh my God! He did something!' But I'm like, 'What? What could he have possibly done?'" she said of her husband. "Me and my kids, we were right there in the living room. They didn't let us move."



It wasn't until about 3 a.m. the next day, as officers prepared to leave, that they told her that her husband was dead, she said.



Segura and Toscano were ordered held without bond last week on charges in connection with the double homicide as well as attempted murder, home invasion and aggravated battery. Police said they suspect the men were connected to three 2010 cases: the beating deaths of three men whose bodies were found in a stolen car in McKinley Park in April, three other bodies found bound and gagged in a car in Brighton Park in May, and the fatal shooting of four men in the West Lawn neighborhood in September. Segura and Toscano have not been charged with any of those slayings.



Co-workers at Windward Roofing and Construction, 919 S. Sacramento Blvd., said they were dumbfounded by the alleged double lives of Ibarra and Segura. When Ibarra joined the company in 2008 after his release from prison, he didn't know much about roofing, but Segura took him under his wing, and the two became among the most dedicated and hard-working employees, said Kuhn, the owner.



"They were specialists who knew the ins and outs of all types of roofing systems," said Kuhn, who indicated each earned $60,000 to $70,000 a year while putting in 50 to 60 hours a week



Ibarra learned bricklaying when he was a teen growing up in Brownsville, Texas, near the Mexico border. A poor student, he dropped out of high school, his family said.



He eventually moved to Chicago for steadier work but was convicted in 1996 of burglary and sentenced to three years in state prison. He got in trouble again in 2002. As he drove with 2 kilograms of cocaine, Drug Enforcement Administration agents tried to stop his car in the parking lot of a fast-food restaurant, but Ibarra aimed his car at one agent. He pleaded guilty to a cocaine charge and assault and was sentenced to seven years in federal prison.



His wife said that when he was freed, she issued a stern warning:



"I even told him, 'If you go back to jail again, I'm not going to go back with you and you're not even going to see your kids.' He said, 'I promise you I'm not going to do anything illegal.'"



After his long prison stint, Ibarra spoiled their two oldest children, often buying them toys and taking them to movies, his wife said. The couple had their third child last year, she said.



Police said Ibarra was a follower of Santa Muerte, a religious icon also referred to as "Holy Death" or "Saint Death" that has been present in the tough neighborhoods of Mexico City, where prostitutes and drug traffickers worshiped it secretly. In Mexico, the Catholic Church has spoken out against Santa Muerte, saying the icon — a skeletal woman wearing a long robe — is linked to Satanism and is being used to mislead desperate people.



Ibarra's relatives, who are Catholic, said he had the icon tattooed on his arm after he was released from federal prison.



"I really wasn't OK with that. I really don't know what that means," his wife said with a chuckle in the family's kitchen, decorated with a portrait of the Virgin Mary on a wall. "He would always tell me that it wasn't something bad."



jgorner@tribune.com



jmeisner@tribune.com