SHARE

By Beth Smith

A 32-year-old Webster County man was shot and killed by police Sunday morning following a roughly seven-hour stand-off with law enforcement in which he opened fire on them.

Larry D. Brown of Clay was pronounced dead at the scene by Webster County Deputy Coroner Todd Vanover.

Webster County law enforcement responded to Brown's home on Lisman-Mount Myria Road in Clay around 10 p.m. Saturday after he had allegedly barricaded himself inside his residence and began randomly firing his 12-gauge shotgun inside the dwelling.

Trooper Stu Recke, public information officer with Post 2 in Madisonville, said Brown's mother was in the residence when he began shooting. However, she was not injured and was able to get out of the house, Recke said.

Law enforcement established a perimeter around the house and began trying to negotiate with Brown.

"He would talk sometimes ... and then he would start shooting ..." Recke said.

That was the state of events until around 5:30 a.m. Sunday.

For unknown reasons, Brown "decided to shoot through the door of the residence," Recke said, adding that the way the house is positioned, the door Brown shot through, doesn't face the road, but the yard.

Officers were stationed around the house.

"After shooting the round through the door, Brown came (outside), took a few steps into the yard and shot toward officers," Recke said.

At this point, KSP Sgt. Brenton Ford, KSP Trooper Tim Sales and Webster County Sheriff's Deputy Steve Madden "returned fire, striking (Brown)."

Brown's body was autopsied Monday at the State Medical Examiner's Office in Madisonville. Recke said the autopsy confirmed that Brown was shot twice, however, he declined to comment on where Brown was shot.

Sgt. Ford and Trooper Sales were placed on paid administrative leave pursuant to KSP policy.

Recke said it's uncertain why Brown fired at the officers.

"You always want a peaceful outcome," Recke said. "We were confronted with deadly force and officers had to use deadly force to defend themselves."

The Clay Police Department, the Providence Police Department and Webster County Ambulance Service assisted at the scene.