Authorities Friday continued to investigate what led to a high-speed pursuit and fiery crash that killed two people on Silver Strand Boulevard in Coronado Thursday morning, but friends of the pair denied reports that the driver was a carjacker.

Jamie Summer Guillen, 24, of Imperial Beach, and her back seat passenger, identified by friends as Roosevelt Lewis, died in the 7:50 a.m. collision that injured three other motorists.

Advertisement

Guillen and Lewis were in a 2002 F-150 pickup owned by Joseph Edwards of Georgia Street in Imperial Beach. Sheriff’s deputies were looking for the truck after another woman reported about 7:25 a.m. that it had been carjacked.

Augustin Tirado, 26, said he and that other woman had gotten into the truck with Guillen and Lewis after Edwards told them they could borrow it if they would fill the gas tank.

He said Guillen and the other woman argued and the woman was left behind at an Imperial Boulevard gas station. Tirado said he got out a few blocks later to walk to a friend’s house.

“I just want to clear stuff up,” Tirado said Friday. “We never stole no truck.”

Sheriff’s homicide Sgt. Roy Frank confirmed that the four people in the pickup knew each other.

Guillen was behind the wheel when a deputy tried to pull her over near Calla Avenue and Delaware Street. Sheriff’s officials said she deliberately sideswiped the patrol car and sped away. The deputy was in pursuit as the pickup headed north on Silver Strand Boulevard at speeds up to 80 mph.

Guillen’s mother, Isabel Lopez of Chula Vista, said she didn’t know why her daughter fled but guessed ”she got scared, the way they were chasing her.”

Coronado police traffic investigator Jim Dunphey said Friday that Guillen tried to steer the pickup between a red Toyota Tercel and a silver PT Cruiser on the Silver Strand.

The pickup slammed into the Tercel’s left back side, shoving the car to the right, and clipped the PT Cruiser. The pickup then hit a parked box truck that rolled forward some 80 feet and struck a parked Chevrolet Avalanche and the front of the PT Cruiser, Dunphey said.

The pickup flipped onto the driver’s side and landed up on the right shoulder, where the undercarriage caught fire. Guillen and Lewis died at the scene.

The PT Cruiser hit the center median, spun around and stopped facing the wrong way, Dunphey said. A woman driving the Tercel and the male driver and female passenger in the PT Cruiser were taken to hospitals with injuries.

debbi.baker@uniontrib.com; (619) 293-1710; Twitter@debbi_baker

pauline.repard@uniontrib.com; (619) 293-1865