Police shot and killed a 31-year-old man in his South Kelso home early Tuesday morning after he pointed a gun at SWAT officers following a nearly four-hour standoff, according to the Kelso Police Department.

Authorities identified the deceased as William Wayne Rowton. A neighbor and family friend said he was known as "Billy" and was a union electrician's apprentice, as well as a husband and father of two girls.

Kelso police were dispatched around 11:30 p.m. to Rowton's home, at 1216 South Third Avenue, after it was reported that Rowton had a gun and was making suicidal statements.

Officers tried to contact a man who "was distraught over some personal issues" but refused to come out, Kelso Police Chief Andy Hamilton said.

The officers called in Lower Columbia SWAT, which is made up of Kelso and Longview police and Cowlitz County sheriff's deputies. Throughout the night roughly two dozen officers kept vigil in the neighborhood as a police negotiator spoke with Rowton by phone. Still, police said, Rowton wouldn't cooperate.

Just before 3 a.m., Hamilton said, SWAT officers positioned at the rear of the house saw Rowton standing inside the home, in front of the sliding glass door, pointing a gun at them. Hamilton said a SWAT member fired a single shot, killing Rowton.

Cowlitz County Coroner Tim Davidson said an autopsy was performed Tuesday evening and the cause of death was determined to be a gunshot wound to the head.

Rowton was armed with a "long gun — I'm assuming it was a type of rifle," Hamilton said.

No one else was inside the residence when Rowton was shot, Hamilton said. Asked if family members had been evacuated sometime during the standoff, he said, "I don't know the answer to that."

Asked if Rowton committed what is known as "suicide by cop" — forcing officers to fire in self defense — Hamilton said: "I'm not going to comment on that."

Jessica Sandoz, who lives across Laurel Street from Rowton, said her 9-year-old daughter was looking out the window when the shooting happened. "She saw the SWAT team. She saw the commotion," Sandoz said. "The whole situation is something you don't want your 9-year-old to see."

Sandoz said her husband, David Sandoz, 35, worked with Rowton at the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local Union 970. Both men are apprentices, she said, and shared a hotel room when they worked together on an electrical job in Las Vegas.

An official reached by phone at the union hall Tuesday confirmed Rowton was a member but declined other comment.

Sandoz said her 9-year-old daughter and one of Rowton's daughters are on the same competitive gymnastics team and that the family's children play together often.

On Monday, Sandoz said, the men had been in an evening electrical class together and, according to her husband's account, nothing had seemed amiss.

"This is not something that I would expect to see from this family," she said.

Sandoz, 31, described Rowton as "a family" guy who was "happy."

"He was a funny guy," Sandoz said. "He was a character."

She said she was jolted awake by the sound of police pounding on her door sometime between 2 a.m. and 2:30 a.m. Tuesday. "One of the SWAT team guys... said he needed to evacuate us," she said.

Sandoz said she explained that her husband was out delivering newspapers and she had five daughters and a son, between the ages of 1 and 14, to wake and get ready to leave.

"By the time I got the kids ready the gunfire had already gone off."

Sandoz said her 9-year-old, who knows the Rowton girls well and saw a flash when the shot echoed through the neighborhood, couldn't get back to sleep until 6 a.m. "Of course her stomach hurt," Sandoz said.

"My oldest ones could understand more clearly," she said. "They were pretty upset. There were tears."

Kristen Hansen, who also lives across the street from the Rowtons, said police also evacuated her and her family early Tuesday morning.

"They all had weapons drawn," said Hansen, 24, who lives at the house with her boyfriend, sister and 2-year-old niece. "It was kind of scary. We had to just leave."

The Rowton home is less than a block from Wallace Elementary School. The school's playground can be seen from the home's front yard.

On Tuesday afternoon, a sliding door, its glass broken out, was leaning against the back of the home. A portion of the home's backyard fence was reduced to a pile of splintered lumber. A trampoline and what appeared to be several other children's toys were nearby.

Several men, one of whom identified himself as a family friend, were at the house straightening up. The family friend, who did not give his name, said SWAT officers busted down the fence.

Authorities have not yet released the name of the SWAT officer involved in the shooting. Hamilton said it's standard practice to put officers involved with shootings on administrative leave.

The Regional Major Crimes Team, which includes detectives with the Clark County Sheriff's Office and Vancouver Police Department, are investigating the incident. Investigators with the unit were in the Kelso neighborhood Tuesday morning.