Kemp Yarborough died from an asthma attack brought on by police pepper spray, the the city medical examiner.

The death of a Bronx ex-con who suffered a fatal asthma attack after cops pepper-sprayed him has been ruled a homicide - and now his family wants the officers locked up.

Prosecutors are considering filing charges against the NYPD officers who arrested Kemp Yarborough, 37, on March 8 while responding to reports of a street brawl, sources said Thursday.

Advertisement

Yarborough's family and lawyer say the cops ignored the dying man as he pleaded for his inhaler after he was hit with the noxious pepper-sprayed.

"I want justice for my husband," said his widow, Erica Coleman-Yarborough, 39. "He was having an asthma attack, but instead of helping him, these officers pepper sprayed him."

Advertisement

An autopsy determined Yarborough's death was a homicide caused by "acute bronchial asthma during a physical altercation including pepper spray," according to the city medical examiner.

The NYPD did not respond to requests for comment Thursday.

Police contend Yarborough had drugs on him when he died, said his lawyer, William Martin, but the NYPD has not provided a full account of the incident.

Yarborough, who served eight years in prison for a 1990 murder conviction, told cops he had nothing to do with a fight on a playground at E. 163rd St. and Eagle Ave. in Morrisania, Martin and a witness said.

As cops questioned him, Yarborough began having trouble breathing and reached for his inhaler inside his pocket, Martin and the witness said.

That prompted the cops to use force on the 6-foot-4, 300-pound Yarborough and douse him with pepper spray, they charged.

"He went down like timber," Martin said. "He told them he couldn't breathe. After five to 10 minutes, he started foaming at the mouth and eventually died."

The officers performed CPR but could not revive Yarborough, who also had an enlarged heart, sources said.

Advertisement

"They basically watched him die, and didn't do anything until it was too late," the witness said of the cops involved, who have not been identified. "His inhaler was right there."

Bronx prosecutors and the NYPD's Internal Affairs Bureau are investigating, sources said.

Records show Yarborough was also arrested for possessing a weapon and a controlled substance in 2005, but his wife said he had reformed and was working as a security guard.

"He had completely changed his life and was trying to be better," his widow said Thursday.

kdeutsch@nydailynews.com