Crime & Safety Bank Robbery Suspect Killed by Police Identified Police pursue Sandy Springs bank robbery suspect into Buckhead, where he's shot by officers Reply

Atlanta police Wednesday shot and killed a bank robbery suspect after he was pursued from Sandy Springs into Buckhead, where the shooting occurred.

The Fulton County Medical Examiner's Office identified the man killed as Michael Hammond, 47, of southwest Atlanta. An investigator with the office said an autopsy was being performed Thursday morning, which would determine how many times he'd been shot. Atlanta homicide commander Lt. Paul R. Guerrucci said the shooting occurred at the Lindbergh Apartments at Adina and Lindbergh drives after the Atlanta police responded to the Sandy Springs police's decscription of the suspect's car, a beige Chrevrolet Impala.

Guerrucci would not say how many officers fired at the suspect, who was armed, or whether the suspect fired at police. He said the shooting was still under investigation. "Multiple officers responded," Guerrucci said. "We haven't determined which officer actually fired." No police officers were hurt, he said.

As is normal procedure in a police shooting of a suspect, the officer will be placed on administrative leave, he said. He wouldn't say how many officers would be placed on leave. Sandy Springs police said the Wells Fargo at 5555 New Northside Drive was robbed just after noon today. Sandy Springs officers pursued the suspect on Ga. 400 South, and he exited at Sidney Marcus, according to a statement from Sandy Springs Police. Lt. Steve Rose.

"The suspect got on Ga. 400 South and exited at Sidney Marcus and went behind that QT, which is Adina Drive where there used to be a Home Depot - and is now the new Dump store - then down Adina into Lindbergh," according to Sandy Springs Police Lt. Steve Rose. The Atlanta officers picked up the pursuit at Garson Drive and Adina, Guerrucci said. "Atlanta police tried to engage the subject in the vehicle, and during that engagement, Atlanta police officers shot at the subject, " he said. "Subsequently the subject inside the vehicle was shot and killed."