FRANKLIN COUNTY • A teenager found dead in a creek here injured himself in a fall after outrunning sheriff's deputies who broke up a party at his mother's house, authorities and friends said Monday.

A passer-by found the body of Randy E. Dawson Jr., 17, face down about 8:30 a.m. Saturday in Pin Oak Creek, off American Inn Road near Villa Ridge, said Lt. Charles Subke of the Franklin County Sheriff's Department.

Twenty to 25 teenagers were partying Friday at Dawson's mother's home in the 600 block of Woodview Drive, near Interstate 44, when deputies responded to a report of a fight there, Subke said. The teens had been drinking alcohol without an adult present, he said. Three or four teens, including Dawson, ran from the rear of the home when deputies arrived about 9 p.m.

"He was scared," said LeAnna Cardinalli, 19, a friend of Dawson's from St. Clair, Mo., who said she was at the party. "It was his house, and he didn't want to get in trouble. I wish he didn't run."

Subke said several deputies ran after the teens for about 50 yards but gave up and returned to the house to help control the party, Subke said. Dawson crossed over to the south side of Interstate 44 and entered a wooded area before stumbling over an 8-foot embankment into a 3-inch-deep creek.

Dawson suffered a severe head injury on a rock, Subke said. It was not clear whether Dawson died of drowning, hypothermia or a blow to his head.

An autopsy was completed over the weekend, but the cause of death was not available Monday. Dawson's parents could not be reached.

Subke said deputies released some of the teens to their parents Friday night; others were taken to a juvenile detention center.

Cardinalli said Dawson attended Pacific High School and recently earned his high school equivalency certificate. She said he loved skateboarding, playing video games and hanging out with friends.

After police drove her home from the party late Friday night, Cardinalli said, she was worried about Dawson and sent him a text message telling him she loved him.

"He was really funny," Cardinalli said. "He was protective of his friends. He knew how to make people feel better when they were upset, and he cared about other people more than he cared about himself."