AURORA — A man suspected of holding a family hostage after wounding an Aurora police officer was shot and killed Friday morning by a SWAT team.

The suspect had taken hostage a mother, father and two children — both under the age of 10 — in their apartment as he tried to evade officers, said Sgt. Cassidee Carlson, a police spokeswoman.

Police knew the man was in the area after talking to him on his cellphone.

They later pinpointed his location when officers who were doing a door-to-door canvass of the complex encountered the family, who said the man was in their home.

The incident started during a traffic stop about 8:15 p.m. Thursday near East 16th Avenue and Florence Street. The suspect got out of the vehicle, and the officer chased him into the courtyard of the Florence Square Apartments, a block away.

The suspect exchanged fire with the officer. The officer, a seven-year veteran, was wounded in the leg. He was treated and released from the hospital.

Police flooded the area looking for the suspect and were somehow able to get the gunman’s phone number.

Police called, and the suspect answered the phone, Carlson said. During a few conversations over the cellphone, police were able to pinpoint his general location.

The man told police negotiators on the phone that “his intent was to go out shooting,” Carlson said.

Police went knocking door to door to alert people of the danger, and they considered evacuating the apartments.

“At that point, we made contact with people who said the man was inside their apartment,” Carlson said.

The family felt it was safe to answer the door of their ground-floor apartment because the man had barricaded himself in a back bedroom, she said.

At some point later, police were able to free the hostages unharmed.

About 7 a.m., police released gas into the bedroom, prompting the suspect to climb out of the window, holding a handgun.

Carlson said the SWAT team fatally shot the suspect at that point.

Multiple shots were fired, but police did not say whether the suspect fired any shots.

No names have been released.

Carlson said the suspect had a long criminal record, including violent crimes. Police do not think the gunman knew the family he held hostage.

Meanwhile, police are looking for the car that was pulled over Thursday night. By the time other officers arrived at the scene, the car was gone.

Police don’t know whether someone else in the car drove it away or a passer-by took it.

Police describe the car as a red four-door sedan, possibly a Toyota, with a temporary tag.

Anyone with information on the car or the case is asked to call Detective Tom Wilson at 303-739-6711.

The incident is the second fatal shooting involving Aurora police this week. An armed man died Monday night in Aurora after taking two people hostage in a vehicle. A hostage and a police sergeant were wounded in the incident but are recovering.

“This week has been hard,” Carlson said.

Yesenia Robles: 303-954-1372 or yrobles@denverpost.com