Aurora will pay $215,000 to a man who was shot and paralyzed by police this year as he and two men were driving away from a storage yard after planning to steal car parts.

Yevgeniy “Eugene” Straystar, 18, was shot in the head. Oleg Gidenko, 22, was shot and killed. A third man in the truck ducked and was not injured.

The city settled with Gidenko’s family for $150,000. Neither Straystar nor the men’s families sued. No settlement is anticipated for the third man.

The city settled with Straystar because Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates felt the officer who shot Straystar violated police policy for using deadly force.

According to police policy, a vehicle driving in the direction of an officer is not reason enough to fire at it.

“Members will not discharge a firearm at a moving vehicle unless a person in the vehicle is immediately threatening the member or another person with deadly force by a means other than the vehicle,” according to police directives.

Aurora Police Association president Mark Finnin said the union does not agree with that policy because, among other reasons, state law says a vehicle can be used as a weapon.

“It has been the topic of a number of discussions between us and the chief,” Finnin said. “We don’t agree with it for a number of reasons. It implies a vehicle is not a deadly weapon, and how many people are killed each year in auto-pedestrian accidents?”

Through spokesman Bob Friel, Oates said he reviewed the policy in 2006 and then rewrote it to reflect “best practices” in line with other departments throughout the country.

Attorney Keith Coleman, who represented Straystar, said Thursday that a nondisclosure clause in the settlement prevents him or his client from commenting.

Straystar and Gidenko were shot on Laredo Street near East Sixth Avenue after police responded to a report of three men stealing car parts in a storage yard March 20.

Two officers pulled into the lot, which is fenced and has only one entrance.

The three men got into their vehicle and tried to escape. Shots were fired by police, and one of the officers was hit by a side mirror and knocked to the ground.

Both officers said they believed Gidenko, who was the driver, was going to hit them, so they fired their weapons.

The city also agreed to pay $25,000 in medical costs for Straystar, who is paralyzed on the left side of his body.

“When you shoot at a motor vehicle, a lot of bad things can happen,” said City Attorney Charlie Richardson.

Findings from internal-affairs investigations of the two officers involved — Chris Falco and Jason McIrvin — hit the chief’s desk this week, and Oates has yet to make a decision on any discipline.

There have been eight officer-involved shootings in Aurora this year. Six were fatal.