Attorney General Clears Last 2 Mental Health Providers Of Fraud – Associated Press

The last two of 15 mental health nonprofit providers under investigation for possible Medicaid fraud have been cleared by New Mexico's top prosecutor.

Attorney General Hector Balderas is sending a letter to state lawmakers Tuesday, informing them of the outcome of his investigation. He says no patterns of fraud were uncovered.

Gov. Susana Martinez's administration froze payments to the providers after a 2013 audit alleged they mishandled $36 million in Medicaid funding.

Balderas says separate investigations found there was about $1.16 million in overbilling but no evidence of fraud.

He says it's now up to the state Human Services Department to resolve what he called a regrettable situation and ensure that New Mexicans get the care they need.

The agency said last week it was working to make sure there would be no gaps in service.

Lawsuits Filed Opposing Albuquerque Rapid Transit Project – The Associated Press

Residents and businesses opposed to Albuquerque's rapid transit project are suing.

Attorneys filed two lawsuits Monday that ask a judge to stop the project, arguing the city violated the National Historic Preservation Act as well as local and federal laws.

Mayor Richard Berry's chief staff member Gilbert Montaño says the city has confidence in the project's legal standing.

Construction is scheduled to start in the summer.

One lawsuit was filed in federal court while the other is in state court. Both name federal and city officials.

New Mexico School Board Member Under Scrutiny For Conviction – The Associated Press

A northern New Mexico school board member is under scrutiny after fellow board members were notified of a previously unknown 2002 felony drug conviction.

The Las Vegas Optics reports that supporters of West Las Vegas School Board member Anthony "Leroy" Benavidez are circulating a petition seeking a pardon for Benavidez.

Under state law, felons are not eligible to hold elective office unless they have secured a pardon.

The New Mexico Attorney General's Office currently is investigating the matter at the state Public Education Department's request.

A letter obtained by the Optic showed that board chairman David Romero was informed of Benavidez's conviction in December. Other board members weren't notified of the situation until early March, when the full board was contacted by the school district's attorneys.

New Mexico Governor Weighs In On Medicaid Fraud - The Associated Press

New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez says Medicaid dollars should be used to provide basic health care for people in need, not on private planes for wealthy CEOs.

The governor made the comment Tuesday after Attorney General Hector Balderas cleared the last two behavioral health providers who were accused of fraud.

In 2013, Martinez's administration froze payments to 15 nonprofit providers after an audit alleged they mishandled $36 million in Medicaid funding. An investigation was then launched by the attorney general's office.

Balderas says investigators found there was $1.16 million in overbilling and regulatory violations but no evidence of fraud.

Martinez countered that she will never turn a blind-eye to CEOs who break the public's trust and funnel public money to family members or squander tax dollars.

Student Groups Eye University Of New Mexico 'Racist' Seal – The Associated Press

Two Native American student groups want the University of New Mexico to change its official seal which depicts a frontiersman and a Spanish conquistador.

The Daily Lobo reports that the Red Nation and Kiva Club say the seal is racist toward Native Americans because it reflects the state's violent past.

Both groups plan to submit a petition to the Board of Regents to abolish the seal.

Policy and Administrative Planning director Pamina Deutsch says the seal was ratified by the Board of Regents in September 1969.

The groups also are demanding the reconstruction of the Native American cultural center, formation of a council of elders at the Board of Regents comprised of leaders from surrounding pueblos and the demand of tuition waivers for federally recognized tribes.

Hospital Patient Information Turns Up In NM Storage Units – The Associated Press

Officials at a northwestern New Mexico hospital say a now former employee walked off with information on nearly 7,500 patients.

The documents in cardboard boxes turned up in storage units near Farmington. They had been taken from the Northern Navajo Medical Center in Shiprock last fall without authorization.

The Indian Health Service runs the hospital on the Navajo Nation. Agency spokeswoman Jenny Notah says there's no indication the information has been misused.

She says the agency is notifying patients and Navajo communities of the breach and offering a year of identity protection services. The agency also ramped up employee training.

The information included Social Security numbers, birthdates, diagnoses and insurance policy numbers.

Notah says the agency delayed notifying patients at the request of law enforcement while the investigation was ongoing.

UNM's Lactation Stations Held Up As Example For Colleges – The Associated Press

The University of New Mexico has installed 21 "lactation stations" on campus for breastfeeding mothers, and the state's other universities may be following its lead.

KRQE-TV reports that the university also has a new lactation policy and a breastfeeding support group. Women on the campus say the lactation stations are a huge relief and prevent the need to breastfeed or pump in restrooms.

The New Mexico Breastfeeding Task Force is impressed with UNM's lactation policy and wants to use it as an example for other colleges and universities in the state. The Task Force's workplace liaison, MJ Vargas, says the policy helps reduce the disparity for moms going back to school.

Central New Mexico Community College and New Mexico State University have also added lactation stations.

Maverick New Mexico Lawmaker Gets Back In State Senate Race – The Associated Press

A New Mexico district court judge has signed a settlement agreement allowing former state lawmaker Sandra Jeff to run in the Democratic primary for a Senate district traversing tribal lands in the northwest of the state.

The order from Judge Sarah Singleton was released Tuesday and reverses a decision to disqualify Jeff's candidacy against incumbent Democratic Sen. Benny Shendo.

Jeff frequently voted with Republican colleagues during her past tenure in the New Mexico House of Representatives. She was disqualified from running in a Democratic primary for her House seat in 2014 for not collecting enough petition signatures and lost later as a write-in candidate.

Jeff asserted in her recent court appeal that state election officials overstepped their authority in a dispute over a late-filed campaign finance report.

Former New Mexico Senator Pleads Not Guilty – Associated Press

Former New Mexico state Sen. Phil Griego has pleaded not guilty to fraud and bribery charges in connection with his role in the sale of a state-owned building.

Griego was arraigned in Santa Fe District Court on Monday.

Judge Sarah Singleton denied a request for bail and says Griego can be released on his own recognizance.

Griego is confronting 10 criminal counts for fraud, perjury, tampering with public records, bribery, and other violations. The state attorney general's office say the Democrat used his job as a senator to orchestrate the sale of a state-owned building in downtown Santa Fe, and later earn a sales commission from a private company.

Ruling: 2 Albuquerque Officers Can Be Sued For 2013 Death – Associated Press

A federal appeals court says two Albuquerque police officers can be sued for using a stun gun on a suspect who suffered from mental illness and later died.

The 10th U.S. Circuit of Appeals ruled Monday that Albuquerque officers David Baca and Andrew Jaramillo weren't immune from the way they used the stun gun on Jerry Perea during a 2013 encounter.

According to a wrongful death lawsuit filed by Perea's family, Perea was hit with a stun gun 10 times.

The city had argued the officers were justified in using the stun gun. An autopsy later revealed Perea had heart disease and methamphetamine in his system.

Both officers attempted to subdue Perea, who was on a bicycle, following welfare check call.

The medical examiner could not determine his exact cause of death.

Opponents Sue Over Albuquerque Rapid Transit Project – Albuquerque Journal

Opponents to a proposed rapid transit project in Albuquerque have filed two lawsuits seeking to stop it before construction starts.

The Albuquerque Journal reports that one lawsuit was filed in state court and the other in federal court, but they both say the city is violating its own laws as well as the National Historic Preservation Act and name city and federal officials as defendants.

The suits also contend the system of dedicated bus lanes and stations in the middle of Central Avenue, also known as Route 66, would bring congestion and harm the historic corridor.

The state court suit was filed by attorney John McCall on behalf of Western View Restaurant and other residents and businesses, mostly on the city’s west side. The federal suit was filed by attorney John Boyd and Yolanda Gallegos on behalf of business and property owners.

The $119 million project would be mostly paid for by federal funds with the city kicking in $18 million. Public meetings on the project have often been rowdy and contentious.

Michelle Obama To Give Santa Fe Indian School Commencement – Associated Press

First Lady Michelle Obama will deliver the high school commencement address to Santa Fe Indian School.

The White House announced Monday that Obama will address the school on May 26 as part of the White House Generation Indigenous Initiative.

The initiative works to improve the lives of American Indian youth by promoting a national dialogue and programs to train the next generation of leaders.

Last year, the First Lady addressed the White House Tribal Youth Gathering in Washington, D.C.

The Santa Fe Indian School currently is owned and operated by the 19 Pueblos of New Mexico.

Insurer May Drop UNM Hospital From Medicaid Coverage – Albuquerque Journal

Nearly 2,000 Medicaid patients may lose access to the University of New Mexico Hospital and its providers.

The Albuquerque Journal reports that UnitedHealthCare has notified people on the state’s Medicaid program, known as Centennial Care, that it might drop UNM’s hospital and medical group as providers this month.

Discussion over compensation and other issues have been ongoing among the parties. Centennial Care patients would have the option of switching to several other plans that will cover services at UNM.

Michael Richards, the physician executive-in-chief for the UNM Health System, said he’s hopeful the parties can resolve the issues but he added that UNM will work with UnitedHealthCare patients to resolve care issues.

No Tuition Increase For The 2016-2017 Academic Year At NMSU – Associated Press

New Mexico State University's Board of Regents has decided not to increase tuition for the 2016-2017 academic year.

Monday's vote means the university will need to cut its budget by approximately $10.7 million for the next year.

During a town hall meeting last month, university leaders outlined how NMSU was facing a challenging financial situation stemming from several factors.

That includes a decrease in state appropriations due to the struggling state economy and a decrease in student enrollment.

Taken together, state funding and tuition represent about half the university's operating budget.

Among the options being considered by university leaders is a reduction in administrative salaries.

Regents did approve a 5 percent increase in on-campus housing rates.

New Mexico School Board Member Under Scrutiny For Conviction – Las Vegas Optic, Associated Press

A northern New Mexico school board member is under scrutiny after fellow board members were notified of a previously unknown 2002 felony drug conviction.

The Las Vegas Optics reports that supporters of West Las Vegas School Board member Anthony "Leroy" Benavidez are circulating a petition seeking a pardon for Benavidez.

Under state law, felons are not eligible to hold elective office unless they have secured a pardon.

The New Mexico Attorney General's Office currently is investigating the matter at the state Public Education Department's request.

A letter obtained by the Optic showed that board chairman David Romero was informed of Benavidez's conviction in December. Other board members weren't notified of the situation until early March, when the full board was contacted by the school district's attorneys.

Las Vegas Names Ex-Connecticut Educator As Schools Chief – Las Vegas Optic, Associated Press

Las Vegas City Schools has named a former school chief in Connecticut as superintendent.

The Las Vegas Optic reports the board approved Saturday a two-year contract with Kelt Cooper to lead the northern New Mexico school district.

Cooper served as superintendent in New Britain, Connecticut, from 2012 until January following a tense relationship with that district's school board.

The board decided last year not to renew his contract past June of 2016 but Cooper opted to leave earlier.

Cooper cited increased graduation rates at New Britain High School and moving the 10,000-student school system to a sound financial footing as two of his biggest accomplishments.

He was recruited to Connecticut from Del Rio, Texas.

Student Groups Eye University Of New Mexico 'Racist' Seal – Daily Lobo, Associated Press

Two Native American student groups want the University of New Mexico to change its official seal, which depicts a frontiersman and a Spanish conquistador.

The Daily Lobo reports that the Red Nation and Kiva Club say the seal is racist toward Native Americans because it reflects the state's violent past.

Both groups plan to submit a petition to the Board of Regents to abolish the seal.

Policy and Administrative Planning director Pamina Deutsch says the seal was ratified by the Board of Regents in September 1969.

The groups also are demanding the reconstruction of the Native American cultural center, formation of a council of elders at the Board of Regents comprised of leaders from surrounding pueblos and the demand of tuition waivers for federally recognized tribes.

Hospital Patient Information Turns Up In NM Storage Units – Associated Press

Officials at a northwestern New Mexico hospital say a now former employee walked off with information on nearly 7,500 patients.

The documents in cardboard boxes turned up in storage units near Farmington. They had been taken from the Northern Navajo Medical Center in Shiprock last fall without authorization.

The Indian Health Service runs the hospital on the Navajo Nation. Agency spokeswoman Jenny Notah says there's no indication the information has been misused.

She says the agency is notifying patients and Navajo communities of the breach and offering a year of identity protection services. The agency also ramped up employee training.

The information included Social Security numbers, birthdates, diagnoses and insurance policy numbers.

Notah says the agency delayed notifying patients at the request of law enforcement while the investigation was ongoing.