A deputy serving a drug-related search warrant Friday morning

shot and killed a man who pulled a shotgun in a home near Lake

Elsinore, authorities said.

Sheriff’s officials said the man, who was identified as a

58-year-old Lake Elsinore resident, was shot about 7 a.m. at a

mobile home in the 32900 block of Rome Hill Road in the

unincorporated Lakeland Village area, a street off Grand Avenue

lined with mobile homes and small houses surrounded with chain-link

fences.

Several officers from a Southwest Riverside County drug task

force had gone to the home to serve a search warrant, a sheriff’s

news release said.

Deputies called for paramedics but the man died at the scene,

the release said.

The man’s name was being withheld until his family was

notified.

Sheriff’s Lt. Evan Petersen declined to elaborate on the man’s

background or the investigation that brought narcotics

investigators to the home.

Neighbors who knew the man in his 50s who lived in the home said

he was a methamphetamine dealer.

“He was a nice guy, but he just brought really bad people to

this neighborhood,” said Danny Borders on Friday afternoon,

standing outside the Rome Hill Road.

“The street’s got a bad enough name as it is,” he said,

explaining that the area is plagued by criminal activity.

Borders’ wife, Kerri Borders, said their neighbor moved into a

vacant home a few years ago, claimed it as his own and began

selling methamphetamine.

Danny Borders said he left about 6:45 a.m. Friday to drive his

wife to work in Wildomar. When he returned about 7:15 a.m., a

couple of deputies were blocking off the street with crime scene

tape. Within minutes, the neighborhood was swarming with police, he

said.

The name of the deputy was not disclosed, but he is a 10-year

veteran of the sheriff’s department and is assigned to the drug

task force, the release said. He has been placed on paid

administrative leave pending the outcome of the sheriff’s

investigation, which is standard procedure in shootings involving

officers.

The Borderses said they were surprised to learn their neighbor

might have done something to provoke officers to shoot.

The neighbor once told the Borders that he kept a shotgun under

his bed, they said. But they didn’t know him to be a violent

person, they said.

“He wasn’t a fighter or anything,” Danny Borders said. “He was a

gentle guy.”

Neighbor Susan Dreiske said she, too, was troubled by activity

at the home, but she would sometimes chat with the man about

gardening. He recently planted fruit trees in his front yard.

“It’s sad that he’s gone,” Dreiske said, “but the officers are

just trying to do their jobs.”

Reach Sarah Burge at 951-375-3736 or sburge@pressenterprise.com